UNCLASSIFIED
ROUTINE
R 061641Z DEC 16
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC
BT
UNCLAS
PASS TO OFFICE CODES:
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//

NAVADMIN 265/16

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/DEC//

SUBJ/2018 NAVY LEGISLATIVE FELLOWSHIP CALL FOR APPLICATIONS//

REF/A/DOC/BUPERS/12NOV10//
AMPN/REF A IS BUPERSINST 1560.21E, LEGISLATIVE FELLOWS PROGRAM.//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN solicits applications for the 2018 Navy Legislative 
Fellows Program.  The Legislative Fellows Program allows naval officers, 
senior enlisted and Department of the Navy civilians to broaden their 
understanding of the legislative process and the operation of the U.S. 
Congress through a year-long full-time assignment to the office of a member 
of the House of Representatives or the Senate.  The Legislative Fellows 
Program also enhances the ability of the Navy to fulfill its role in the 
national policy development process.

2.  This is a highly competitive program.  Records must reflect sustained 
superior performance and potential for future assignments in critical 
billets.  Upon completion of the program, officers earn an additional 
legislative qualification designator.  Additionally, there is an opportunity 
to earn a legislative studies certificate through a sponsoring agency.

3.  Military Applicants.  Participation is open to all active-duty and Full-
Time Support unrestricted line officers, restricted line officers, and staff 
corps officers in the permanent grades of O-3 through O-5.  Enlisted 
participation is open to all Navy occupational specialty codes in the 
permanent grades of E-7 through E-9.  The selection process will focus on 
individual performance, promotion potential, academic and subspecialty 
qualifications, needs of the Navy, and availability for follow-on assignment.  
Officers with permanent change of station orders already issued will not be 
considered.
    a.  Applications must be available for permanent change of station 
assignment to Washington, DC, from November 2017 through December 2018.  
During the fellowship, officers and senior enlisted Sailors will be assigned 
to the Office of Legislative Affairs for administrative purposes.  Upon 
execution of orders, fellows agree to serve for three years following 
completion or termination of the fellowship.  A follow-on utilization tour in 
legislative affairs is preferred (making career timing an important 
consideration), but depends on community-specific billet requirements, needed 
officer progression, and availability of legislative assignments.  All 
officer applicants must contact their detailers for counseling on the career 
impact of participation in the Legislative Fellowship Program.
    b.  Submit applications via e-mail to the Office of Legislative Affairs 
point of contact no later than 31 March 2017.  Program information and 
submission guidance are available on the Navy Legislative Affairs website at
http://www.navy.mil/local/ola/legislative_fellowship1.asp.
    c.  Points of contact are LCDR Nicole Williams, Navy Fellows Program 
Manager at (703) 697-2885/DSN 227 or via e-mail at 
nicole.williams3(at)navy.mil and LCDR Ian Lopez, Graduate Education 
Placement, PERS-440, at (901) 874-4056/DSN 882 or via e-mail at 
ian.lopez(at)navy.mil.

4.  Civilian Applicants.  Senior civilian employees, GM/GS-13 and above or 
equivalent, interested in the Legislative Fellowship Program must contact 
their local civilian training officer for information on submission or 
applications for the 2018 program. Parent commands are responsible for all 
program costs.  Questions concerning Department of the Navy civilian 
participation should be directed to Ms. Janet Evans at (202) 685-6493/DSN 325 
or via e-mail at janet.m.evans(at)navy.mil.  A description of the program can 
be found at 
https://portal.secnav.navy.mil/orgs/MRA/DONHR/Training/Pages/CHFP.aspx.

5.  This NAVADMIN will remain in effect until superseded or canceled, 
whichever occurs first.

6.  Released by Vice Admiral R. P. Burke, N1.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
