UNCLASSIFIED//
ROUTINE
R 141332Z AUG 15
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC
BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 189/15

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/AUG//

SUBJ/FY-16 UNITED STATES NAVAL ACADEMY LEADERSHIP EDUCATION AND DEVELOPMENT 
MASTERS PROGRAM//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN announces application procedures for the FY-16 
Leadership Education and Development (LEAD) masters program. The United 
States Naval Academy (USNA) is seeking applications from motivated, 
academically and professionally qualified unrestricted line officers for the 
FY-16 LEAD masters program.  Selected officers will serve as both company 
officers and role models for our future naval officers.  The USNA LEAD 
masters program is a unique opportunity for junior officers to participate in 
a 36-month graduate education and leadership experience.  The program 
combines a fully-funded masters program in leadership, education and 
development from George Washington University (GWU) with a required two-year 
follow-on commitment as a company officer at USNA.  Officers attend classes 
at both GWU and Luce Hall.

2.  Additional information can be found on the USNA website at
http://www.usna.edu/LEAD/LEAD-Masters-Program.php.

3.  Community-specific eligible year groups (YG) and additional eligibility 
requirements follow:
    a.  Surface:
        (1) Eligible YG:  YG12-13 surface warfare qualified officers who have 
demonstrated superior performance and upward career mobility, and are able to 
execute a 36-month shore duty tour. Officers should complete the 36-month 
program in time to begin department head school by the 7.5 year point of 
their career. Eligible officers will compete in a Commander, Navy Personnel
Command (COMNAVPERSCOM) Surface Warfare Officer Assignment (PERS-41) held 
selection board for available quotas; board specifics will be announced via 
separate correspondence.  Contact COMNAVPERSCOM (PERS-41), junior officer 
detailers, for additional information; and
        (2) Revised junior critical skills retention bonus contract must be 
submitted immediately upon selection for the LEAD Program. Department head 
school attendance and successful completion of two department head tours as 
defined by COMNAVPERSCOM (PERS-41) is required following completion of USNA 
assignment.
    b.  Submarine:
        (1) Eligible YG:  YG12; and
        (2) COMNAVPERSCOM, Submarine Office Distribution (PERS-42) will 
review all applications and recommend for selection top performing officers 
who can meet Submarine Officers Advanced Course (SOAC) gate at seven years of 
commissioned service.  SOAC attendance and completion of a department head 
tour is required following completion of USNA assignment.
    c.  Aviation:
        (1) Eligible YG:  YG09-12 (eligible for first shore tour); and
        (2) COMNAVPERSCOM, Aviation Officer Assignment (PERS-43) will review 
all applications and recommend for selection the best and fully qualified 
applicants.

4.  Interested officers must:
    a.  Complete an application and forward to cognizant detailer. A sample 
can be found at http://www.usna.edu/LEAD/LEAD-Masters-Program.php.  The 
application package must include:
        (1) Completed application page (PDF fillable version found at the 
website above);
        (2) Official photo (taken within the past 12 months);
        (3) Personal statement that specifically addresses the reason for the 
application to the LEAD program, how the program fits into your career goals 
and your expectations with respect to the program;
        (4) Biography (following the format provided at the website above);
        (5) All higher education transcripts;
        (6) Copy of graduate record exam scores taken within the last five 
years;
        (7) Chain of command endorsement (required); and
        (8) Additional letters of recommendation (desired, not required).
    b.  Forward additional original transcripts from all college and/or 
graduate education to:
        LEAD Program Director
        112 Cooper Road
        Annapolis MD 21402-1305
    c.  Communicate intentions to apply for this program to the cognizant 
detailer to ensure adequate career timing.  All applications will be vetted 
through detailers to verify career timing impact.

5.  Timeline:
    a.  13 November 2015:  Application deadline for surface warfare officers 
to compete in COMNAVPERSCOM (PERS-41) USNA LEAD board. Contact COMNAVPERSCOM 
(PERS-41) for application requirements;
    b.  4 December 2015:  Application deadline for submarine and aviation 
officers;
    c.  8 January 2016:  Nominees forwarded to USNA for selection/approval;
    d.  22 February 2016:  USNA final selections made and forwarded to 
COMNAVPERSCOM, Graduate Education and Training (PERS-440);
    e.  29 February 2016:  No later than date for applicants to be informed 
of selection/non-selection; and
    f.  2 May 2016:  Report date for selected individuals.  Classes will 
begin mid-May 2016.

6.  Points of contact:  LT Galo Cavalcanti at (901) 874-3616/DSN 882, fax at 
(901) 874-2676, or via e-mail at galo.cavalcanti(at)navy.mil and LCDR Alex 
Dietrich at (410) 293-6029/DSN 281 or via e-mail at adietric(at)usna.edu.

7.  This message is canceled for record purposes on 30 September 2016.

8.  Released by Vice Admiral W. F. Moran, N1.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
