UNCLASSIFIED//
ROUTINE
R 291450Z JUN 15
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC
BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 150/15

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/JUN//

SUBJ/ANNUAL RECERTIFICATION OF SPECIAL DUTY ASSIGNMENT PAY//

REF/A/DOC/OPNAV/29DEC06//
REF/B/DOC/OSD/10APR09//
REF/C/MSG/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/071311ZJUL14//
NARR/REF A IS OPNAVINST 1160.6B, SPECIAL DUTY ASSIGNMENT PAY (SDAP) PROGRAM.  
REF B IS DOD INSTRUCTION 1304.27, AWARD AND ADMINISTRATION OF SPECIAL DUTY 
ASSIGNMENT PAY.  REF C IS NAVADMIN 156/14, SPECIAL DUTY ASSIGNMENT PAY.//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN announces the annual Special Duty Assignment Pay 
(SDAP) recertification process for FY-15 and clarifies retroactive payments 
and procedures.  This process is critical to ensure the Navy accurately 
compensates Sailors for serving in uniquely challenging assignments.  Per 
references (a) and (b), commanding officers (CO) are required to annually 
review and certify each Sailors entitlement to SDAP.  This certification is 
to verify every Sailor who is assigned to an eligible billet remains 
qualified to fill the billet and is receiving the correct SDAP.  
Certification shall commence upon the release of this NAVADMIN and continue 
through 31 August 2015.  Per reference (a), commands that do not complete the 
required certification by 31 August 2015 will have their Sailors SDAP 
terminated retroactive to 1 June 2015.  A complete list of authorized skills 
http://www.npc.navy.mil/bupers-
npc/career/payandbenefits/sdap/Pages/default.aspx.

2.  To verify if a Sailor is eligible and receiving the correct level of 
SDAP, refer to reference (a), and
http://www.npc.navy.mil/bupers-npc/career/payandbenefits/sdap/Pages/
default.aspx.

3.  Follow these procedures to certify the special pay (SP) section of the 
Enlisted Distribution and Verification Report (EDVR):
    a.  Obtain and print the SP section of the EDVR.  The SP section only 
pulls those Sailors that are currently drawing SDAP.
    b.  Verify your command as a whole and make changes as follows:
        (1) Add any Sailors who are eligible for SDAP, but not listed in the 
SP section of the EDVR.  To add, simply handwrite or type the name, rate, 
effective date, and level on the bottom of the SP section of the EDVR.  If 
there is not enough space you can do one of two things:
            (a) Attach a list on command letterhead; or
            (b) Make a copy of the top portion of the SP section and use that 
as a secondary page for your additions.
        (2) Draw a line through any Sailor who has not reported and are on 
the SP section as a prospective gain.  These Sailors are currently drawing 
SDAP at their current command and will be certified by that unit 
identification code (UIC).
        (3) Draw a line through any Sailor who is no longer eligible and put 
a brief description as to why they are no longer eligible 
(transfer/separation/loss of Navy enlisted classifications).
        (4) Verify levels per reference (c), and draw a line through listed 
level and replace with new level as required.
        (5) The COs original signature must be on each page of the SP section 
accompanied by the following statement:  "After review, I certify that all 
required additions and changes have been annotated and all Sailors at this 
command are receiving the correct SDAP entitlement."  This statement can be 
handwritten, typed, or put on with a label.  A cover letter is not required, 
and only recommended if the command needs more space for Sailors added.
        (6) List a point of contact (POC), in the top right hand corner of 
the first page of the SP section.
        (7) Send the SP section via encrypted e-mail to PSC(SW/AW) Marie 
Porter at marie.porter(at)navy.mil.  If you are having trouble sending 
encrypted e-mail, send an e-mail to PSC(SW/AW) Porter so you can be added to 
the contact list.  E-mail subject line should read:  Encryption request for 
UIC, POC:  name and phone number and/or e-mail address.  E-mail is the 
preferred method, but if you need to send via regular mail, please send to:
    Navy Personnel Command
    ATTN PSC Marie Porter (PERS 81)
    5720 Integrity Drive
    Millington TN 38055-0130
        (8) E-mail subject line must contain:  UIC, POC:  rate, name, and 
phone number.
        (9) SDAP recertifications do not go to personnel support detachments 
(PSD), only the required changes need to be submitted to PSD via the 
transaction online processing system.

4.  Each command is responsible for ensuring updates are made to the Sailors 
record through the commands servicing PSD.  No changes will be made by Navy 
Personnel Command as part of the annual recertification process.  If changes 
are required by Enlisted Career Administration/Enlisted Boards (PERS-81), 
then send via separate correspondence with Sailors name in subject line of 
the e-mail.

5.  Each year commands fail to submit their SDAP recertifications by the 
deadline of 31 August resulting in stoppage of SDAP for all Sailors at that 
UIC.  Ensure the command submits their annotated EDVR before the deadline 
date to prevent unnecessary pay interruptions.

6.  Commands can check the status of their SDAP recertification at
http://www.npc.navy.mil/bupers-npc/career/enlistedcareeradmin/Pages/
SRB.aspx. Commands are strongly encouraged to use this site to ensure all 
subordinate commands have completed the recertification. Please allow 5 to 10 
days after submission to be updated on the webpage.

7.  Commands and Sailors will have the ability to receive back pay within the 
current FY.  PSD may start a Sailors SDAP up to eight months retroactive to 
date of the command certification letter, but only within the same FY.  SDAP 
certifications that are between eight months and one year past the SDAP 
effective start date, and within the current FY, can be processed by PERS-81 
and will require a letter signed by the commands immediate superior in 
command explaining why the members SDAP was not processed in a timely manner.  
All other SDAP retroactive pay issues should be submitted via a request 
through the Board for Corrections of Naval Records. Payments may cross the FY 
for Sailors who report to a command in August or September, but whose command 
certification is not fully routed until October or November.

8.  Point of contact is PSC(SW/AW) Marie Porter, PERS-811, at (901) 874-3260 
or via e-mail at marie.porter(at)navy.mil.

9.  This message will remain in effect until superseded or 1 October 2015, 
whichever occurs first.

10.  Released by Vice Admiral W. F. Moran, N1.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
