UNCLASSIFIED//
ROUTINE
R 181441Z NOV 19 MID110000201458U
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC

BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 261/19

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N8/NOV//

SUBJ/NOMINATIONS FOR 2020 SECRETARY OF DEFENSE FIELD LEVEL MAINTENANCE 
AWARDS//

REF/A/DOC/DOD/8APR2019//
NARR/REF A IS THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE (DoD) INSTRUCTION FOR THE SECRETARY 
OF DEFENSE MAINTENANCE AWARDS PROGRAM//

RMKS/1.  The annual Secretary of Defense (SECDEF) Maintenance Awards Program 
acknowledges maintenance excellence by formally recognizing field-level 
military units responsible for outstanding achievements in maintenance 
management and production.  SECDEF presents six DoD wide maintenance awards 
to the most outstanding large, medium, and small organizations.  One of these 
six winners will be recognized as the best of the best and awarded the 
Phoenix Trophy.

2.  Competitive Categories:
    A.  Large:  1000 or more authorized personnel
    B.  Medium:  301-999 authorized personnel
    C.  Small:  up to 300 authorized personnel

3.  All active and reserve component field-level commands and units 
responsible for organizational and intermediate-level maintenance on weapons 
systems and/or equipment belonging to their own unit, or to other units, are 
eligible to compete.  Examples of eligible activities include ships, 
squadrons, Naval Stations, etc.  A component of a command such as a repair 
department of a submarine base may be nominated if that component is assigned 
a Unit Identification Code distinct from the command as a whole.  The 
preponderance of unit staffing shall be comprised of uniformed U.S. military 
personnel and DoD civilians.  The 2020 SECDEF Maintenance Awards competitive 
period covers Fiscal Year 2019.  The 2020 awards will be presented at a 
formal ceremony on a date to be announced.

4.  Echelon II commanders must review and screen nominations from their 
respective commands and may submit up to two SECDEF field level maintenance 
award nominations per category to Office of the Chief of Naval Operations
(OPNAV) N8.  OPNAV (N8) will evaluate the nominations and forward two 
nominees per category to SECDEF for award consideration.

5.  Each nomination package must be submitted in accordance with reference 
(a), via email, to Mr. Daniel Schrader, daniel.l.schrader(at)navy.mil.  
Please pay special attention to the requirements outlined in reference (a) 
with regards to the eight page limitation for nomination packages and the 
three weighted evaluation factors for field-level units.  It is imperative 
that nomination packages highlight accomplishments of the unit, and support 
with qualifying statements of fact.  Each nomination package should include a 
one paragraph executive summary highlighting the extraordinary 
accomplishments of the unit, and include a separate high resolution image 
file of their unit logo (minimum of 300 DPI file).

6.  Echelon II endorsed nomination packages are due no later than 21 February 
2020.  Follow on messages will announce Navy finalists and SECDEF field level 
maintenance award winners.

7.  Point of contact for nomination packages is Mr. Daniel Schrader, OPNAV 
N83, at (703) 695-4925, or via e-mail at daniel.l.schrader(at)navy.mil.

8.  This NAVADMIN will remain in effect until superseded or canceled.

9.  Released by direction Neil W. T. Hogg, SES, Assistant Deputy Chief Of 
Naval Operations, N8B.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//

