UNCLASSIFIED//

ROUTINE

R 091152Z OCT 14 PSN 796605H33

FM CNO WASHINGTON DC

TO NAVADMIN

BT
UNCLAS

SUBJ/FY-15 GRADUATE SCHOOL OPPORTUNITIES AT MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF 
TECHNOLOGY AND WOODS HOLE OCEANOGRAPHIC INSTITUTION// INFO/CNO WASHINGTON 
DC//N1// UNCLAS//N01520// 

NAVADMIN 233/14

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/OCT//

REF/A/DOC/OPNAV/31OCT13//

AMPN/REF A IS OPNAVINST 1520.31C, MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY/WOODS 
HOLE OCEANOGRAPHIC INSTITUTION JOINT MASTER*S IN OCEANOGRAPHY PROGRAM 
(CURRICULUM #375).//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN announces eligibility requirements and application 
procedures for the FY-15 Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT)/Woods 
Hole Oceanographic Institution (WHOI) Applied Ocean Science and Engineering 
Master*s degree program per reference (a).  Two quotas are available for June 
2015 program starts.  MIT deadline for applications is 5 January 2015.  
Additional information on the program and admission requirements can be 
obtained online at http://mit.whoi.edu, within reference (a), and from the 
point of contact (POC) provided below.

2.  Eligibility and program requirements for active duty officers in
 FY-15 include:
       a.  Lieutenant/Lieutenant Commander unrestricted line officers in 
designator 1120.
       b.  Lieutenant/Lieutenant Commander restricted line officers in 
designator 1800.
       c.  Applicants must meet the academic eligibility requirements of 
MIT/WHOI.
       d.  Candidates must be available to report to MIT/WHOI at the 
beginning of June 2015 to start summer refresher coursework.

3.  Selectees are eligible for the 6402P subspecialty code (Operational 
Oceanography) after fully satisfying the educational skill requirements.

4.  Submit online application and graduate record examination results 
directly to MIT/WHOI.  For submarine officers, the associated MIT department 
is Mechanical Engineering and the area of research interest is Applied Ocean 
Science and Engineering.  For oceanography officers, the associated MIT 
department is Earth, Atmospheric and Planetary Sciences and the area of 
research interest is Physical Oceanography.

5.  Applicants must contact their detailers for counseling on the career 
impact of participation in the MIT/WHOI joint program.  A copy of the online 
MIT application and commanding officer and detailer endorsements, must be 
sent to the Office of the Oceanographer of the Navy (OPNAV N2/N6E) by 5 
January 2015.  This copy may be sent electronically to the POC provided below 
or mailed to:
        Office of the Oceanographer of the Navy
        Attn MIT WHOI Joint Program OPNAV N2 N6E
        US Navy Pentagon 1D479
        2000 Navy Pentagon
        Washington DC 20350-2000

6.  POC is CDR Erin Acosta, OPNAV N2/N6E, who can be reached at
(703) 614-1847 or via e-mail at erin.e.acosta(at)navy.mil.

7.  This message is canceled for record purposes on 30 September 2014.

8.  Released by Vice Admiral W. F. Moran, N1.//

BT
#1511
NNNN

