UNCLASSIFIED/
ROUTINE
R 081301Z JAN 15 PSN 854179K34
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
INFO ZEN/CNO WASHINGTON DC
BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 008/15

SUBJ/NAVAL AIRCREWMEN MECHANICAL (AWF)/NAVAL AIRCREWMEN AVIONICS (AWV) 
INITIAL TRANSITION GUIDANCE FOR MARITIME PATROL AND RECONNAISSANCE AIRCRAFT 
(MPRA) COMMUNITY//

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/JAN//
REF/A/DOC/COMNAVPERSCOM/21JUL12//
REF/B/DOC/BUPERS/02NOV07//
NARR/REF A IS MILPERSMAN ARTICLE 1910-102, SEPARATION BY REASON OF CHANGES IN 
SERVICE OBLIGATION (ACTIVE DUTY AND INACTIVE NAVY RESERVIST). REF B IS 
BUPERSINST 1430.16F, ADVANCEMENT MANUAL FOR ENLISTED PERSONNEL OF THE U.S. 
NAVY AND U.S. NAVY RESERVE.//

RMKS/1.  After much fleet coordination, the Airboss and I have agreed on a 
policy for AWF/AWV Sailors accompanying the transition from P-3C Orion to P-8 
Poseidon that allows us to meet mission, make transition possible, and 
provide these Sailors with viable *stay Navy* options.

2.  The policy outlined below is effective immediately and applies to active 
component P-3 AWF/AWV Sailors in Navy Enlisted Classification (NEC) Codes 
8251 and 9402.
    a.  Affected Sailors will contact their rating detailer one year from 
their Projected Rotation Date (PRD) or at the squadrons* transition 
conference, whichever occurs first.
    b.  If there are valid vacancies within the Sailor*s TMS, the Sailor will 
choose from those orders via Career Management System Interactive Detailing 
(CMS/ID).  If the rating detailer does not forecast available billets in 
community TMS, the Sailor will be offered billets to another TMS if there are 
valid vacancies. If there are valid vacancies and a Sailor does not desire to 
crossdeck to the available TMS, the Sailor*s record will be flagged for 
separation at soft expiration of active obligated service (SEAOS). Paygrade 
and NECs will be managed by rating detailer and BUPERS-3 in order to optimize 
advancement opportunity while maintaining sufficient experience in each TMS.
    c.  If there are no valid Aircrew billets within the Sailors rating, the 
Sailor will be given the choice of a lateral rating conversion, or the Sailor 
may request an early separation per reference (a).  Conversions will be 
requested via PERS-811E conversions desk.  Requirements for the Enlisted
Personnel Action Request (NAVPERS 1306/7) and conversion package may be found 
at http://www.public.navy.mil/bupers-
npc/career/enlistedcareeradmin/Pages/AcduConv.aspx. Separation will take 
place at PRD or SEAOS, whichever occurs first.
        (1) Sailors with less than 17 years of service who choose to 
laterally convert may choose up to four ratings in order of preference on the 
NAVPERS 1306/7.  Sailors who desire conversion to their original source 
rating will indicate on the NAVPERS 1306/7 that the rating they are 
requesting is their previous source rating. Sailors are encouraged to select 
ratings that are open or balanced, in order to enhance their selection and 
advancement opportunity.
        (2) Sailors with 17 years of service or greater will be converted to 
their original source rating.
    d.  Sailors selected for direct conversion to a requested rating will be 
converted upon approval and remain in place in a flying status (due to their 
existing aeronautical rating) until their current PRD.  Converted Sailors 
will retain Career Enlisted Flight Incentive Pay (CEFIP) eligibility until 
transferred from their current command.  Converted AWF/AWV Sailors will be 
eligible to compete for advancement in their new rating immediately upon 
conversion.  Sailors approved for conversion via *A* school will transfer to 
*A* school at PRD and will remain an AWF/AWV until successful *A* school 
graduation and will compete for advancement in new rating upon *A* school 
graduation per reference (b).  Sailors converted to new ratings via this 
NAVADMIN, or C-WAY, will retain the authority to wear the Aircrew insignia.
    e.  Sailors not selected for a requested rating will be offered one or 
more ratings based on the needs of the Navy.  Sailors may elect to convert to 
the new rating offered, or elect an early separation per reference (a). 
Sailors electing early separation will be separated at their current PRD or 
EAOS, whichever comes first.
    f.  Those P-3 AWF/AWV Sailors who sign a page-13 non-volunteering from 
the Aircrew program will not be subject to this NAVADMIN.  Non-volunteers 
will be offered one or more ratings for which they qualify based on needs of 
the Navy.

3.  CNAF has initiated a Navy Enlisted Manpower and Personnel Classifications 
and Occupational Standards (NEOCS) proposal to determine the viability of 
sustaining the AWF/AWV ratings or return to the previous aviation maintenance 
rating Aircrew model. The Navy uses NEOCS to conduct in-depth analysis for 
any actions taken concerning enlisted personnel planning, manpower 
management, training, advancement, promotion, distribution, and assignment.  
The NEOCS package will be drafted by Spring 2015 with a decision expected in 
FY16 followed by a NAVADMIN that will provide specifics on NEOCS results.

4.  Manning levels across each of the affected communities require strong 
leadership oversight, coordination with community managers (BUPERS-3/OPNAV 
N13), and enlisted distribution (PERS-40) to maintain personnel levels 
sufficient to achieve operational readiness.  Taking care of our Sailors in 
these uniquely skilled ratings is of primary importance and emphasis.  A team 
effort is required to navigate any transition disruptions.

5.  Points of contact are CAPT Bruce *Des* Deshotel, Head Enlisted Community 
Manager (ECM), at (901) 874-3496/DNS 882 or via e-mail at 
bruce.deshotel(at)navy.mil; and CDR Donald Gaines, Deputy ECM, at (901) 874-
2980/DSN 882 or via e-mail at donald.l.gaines(at)navy.mil.

6.  Released by Vice Admiral W. F. Moran, N1.//

BT
#5215
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
