RTTUZYUW RHOIAAA0001 2761928-UUUU--RHSSSUU.
ZNR UUUUU
R 031923Z OCT 14
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC
BT
UNCLAS
SUBJ/FY-15 UNITED STATES NAVAL ACADEMY LEADERSHIP EDUCATION AND DEVELOPMENT 
MASTERS PROGRAM//

NAVADMIN 231/14

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/OCT//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN announces application procedures for the
FY-15 Leadership Education and Development (LEAD) master*s program.
The United States Naval Academy (USNA) is seeking applications from
motivated, academically and professionally qualified unrestricted
line officers for the FY-15 LEAD master*s program.  Selected
officers will serve as both company officers and role models for our
future naval officers.  The USNA company officer master*s program is
a unique opportunity for junior officers to participate in a
36-month graduate education and leadership experience.  The program
combines a fully-funded master*s program in leadership, education,
and development from The George Washington University (GWU) with a
required two-year follow-on commitment as a company officer at USNA.
Officers will attend classes at both GWU and USNA at Luce Hall.

2.  Additional information can be found on the USNA website at
http://www.usna.edu/lead/lead%20masters%20program.php.

3.  Community-specific eligible year groups (YG) and additional
eligibility requirements follow:
    a.  Surface:
       (1) Eligible YG:  YG11-12 surface warfare qualified officers
who have demonstrated superior performance and upward career
mobility, and are able to execute a 36-month tour of shore duty.
Officers should complete the 36-month program in time to begin
department head school by the 7.5 year point of their career.
Eligible officers will compete in a Commander, Navy Personnel
Command (CNPC) (PERS-41) held selection board for available quotas;
board specifics will be announced via separate correspondence.
Contact CNPC (PERS-41) junior officer detailers for additional
information.
       (2) Revised Junior Critical Skills Retention Bonus contract
must be submitted immediately upon selection for the LEAD Program.
Department head school attendance and successful completion of two
department head tours as defined by CNPC (PERS-41) are required
following completion of USNA assignment.
    b.  Submarine:
        (1) Eligible YG:  YG11
        (2) CNPC (PERS-42) will review all applications and
recommend for selection top-performing officers who can meet
Submarine Officers Advanced Course (SOAC) gate at seven years of
commissioned service.  SOAC attendance and completion of a
department head tour is required following completion of USNA
assignment.
    c.  Aviation:
        (1) Eligible YG:  YG08-11 upon completion of first sea tour.
        (2) CNPC (PERS-43) will review all applications and
recommend for selection the best and fully qualified applicants.

4.  Interested officers must:
    a.  Complete an application and forward to cognizant detailer.
A sample can be found at http://www.usna.edu/lead/lead%20masters%20
program.php.  The application package must include:
        (1) Completed application page (PDF fillable version found
at the website above).
        (2) Official photo (taken within the past 12 months).
        (3) Personal statement that specifically addresses the
reason for application to the LEAD program, how the program fits
into your career goals and your expectations with respect to the
program.
        (4) Biography (following the format provided at the website
above).
        (5) All higher education transcripts.
        (6) Chain of command endorsement.
        (7) Additional letters of recommendation (desired, not
required).
    b.  Forward to USNA a copy of scores from a Graduate Record Exam
(GRE) taken within the last five years and original transcripts from
all college and/or graduate education, in addition to the above
requirements.  Provide scores and transcripts to:
        LEAD Program Director
        112 Cooper Road
        Annapolis MD 21402-1305
    c.  Communicate intentions to apply for this program to the
cognizant detailer to ensure adequate career timing.  All
applications will be vetted through detailers to verify career
timing impact.

5.  Timeline:
    a.  14 November 2014:  Application deadline for surface warfare
officers to compete in CNPC (PERS-41) USNA LEAD board.  Contact CNPC
(PERS-41) for application requirements.
    b.  5 December 2014:  Application deadline for submission to
submarine or aviation community detailer.
    c.  9 January 2015:  Applications forwarded to USNA for review.
    d.  12 January 2015:  Deadline for submission of GRE scores and
original transcripts to USNA.
    e.  23 February 2015:  USNA final selections made and forwarded
to CNPC (PERS-440).
    f.  27 February 2015:  NLT date for applicants to be informed of
selection/non-selection.
    g.  1 May 2015:  Report date for selected individuals.  Classes
will begin mid-May 2015.

6.  Points of contact are LT Mark Jenkins at (901) 874-3616/DSN 882,
fax at (901) 874-2676, or via e-mail at mark.d.jenkins(at)navy.mil
and LCDR Alex Dietrich at (410) 293-6546/DSN 281 or via e-mail at
adietric(at)usna.edu.

7.  This message is canceled for record purposes on 30 September
2015.

8.  Released by Vice Admiral W. F. Moran, N1.//
BT
#0001
NNNN

