UNCLASSIFIED
ROUTINE
R 201449Z AUG 15
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC
BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 199/15

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/AUG//

SUBJ/PROFESSIONAL APPRENTICESHIP CAREER TRACK SAILOR RATING DESIGNATION 
POLICY AND PROCEDURE UPDATES//

REF/A/MSG/CNO WASHINGTON DC/302225ZMAY13//
REF/B/DOC/COMNAVPERSCOM/15DEC14//
REF/C/DOC/BUPERS/2NOV07//
NARR/REF A IS NAVADMIN 150/13, CAREER NAVIGATOR PROGRAM ANNOUNCEMENT PART II.  
REF B IS MILPERSMAN ARTICLE 1306-611, PROFESSIONAL APPRENTICESHIP CAREER 
TRACK (PACT) PROGRAM.  REF C IS BUPERSINST 1430.16F, ADVANCEMENT MANUAL FOR 
ENLISTED PERSONNEL OF THE U.S. NAVY AND U.S. NAVY RESERVE.//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN announces modifications to the Professional 
Apprenticeship Career Track (PACT) Program and PACT Sailor designation 
policies and processes.  The PACT program supports operational readiness 
while providing Sailors an enlistment option to serve in a monitored, general 
apprenticeship program with future designation opportunities.  Program 
details are outlined in references (a) and (b).  This NAVADMIN revises 
reference (a) and is part of pending revisions to reference (b).

2.  Based on Fleet input and Sailor feedback, a review of the PACT Program is 
underway.  Actions include:  working with the Navy career counselor force to 
encourage mentorship and explore ways to provide greater career opportunities 
for PACT Sailors; the release of reference (b) to further educate the fleet 
about the PACT Program; adjustment to recruitment goals to allow for timely 
rating designation and increased opportunity to designate into desired 
ratings.  This coordinated strategy for program improvements make deliberate 
and incremental updates to further empower the command TRIADs, provide 
increased inventory stabilization, reduce training requirements on the fleet 
and decrease command personnel turnover.

3.  Effective 31 August 2015, all PACT Sailors, regardless of pay grade, must 
have a minimum of 12 months time onboard their permanent duty station (PDS) 
to be eligible to submit a PACT designation application.  This modification 
reinstates the required time onboard policy which was in place prior to June 
2013.  The time onboard requirement was eliminated in FY-13 to rapidly fill 
rated manning gaps at sea.  Now that the Navy is at strength, this 
accelerated designation pace is no longer needed and is negatively impacting 
PACT manning stability.  This change will stabilize the PACT inventory, 
ensure a uniform performance evaluation period and standardize on-the-job 
training (OJT) for all PACT Sailors.

4.  This policy will impact applications submitted after 31 August 2015.  
PACT Sailors will continue to use Career Waypoints (C-WAY) PACT Designation 
Module to request designation.  Upon reaching the 12 month minimum time 
onboard, applications for designation via the Navy-Wide Advancement 
Examination (NWAE) will still adhere to the E3 to E4 time-in-rate eligibility 
requirements as outlined in reference (c) to participate in the NWAE for 
petty officer third class. Sailors who have already submitted designation 
applications, but currently have less than 12 months time onboard will be 
allowed to continue to apply.

5.  The monthly application ranking in C-WAY is also being modified, 
prioritizing the time onboard higher in the ranking criteria.  This change 
will provide greater weight to experience and allows more time for OJT.  The 
updated ranking is as follows:
    a.  Onboard billet availability;
    b.  Performance/promotion recommendation;
    c.  Time onboard PDS;
    d.  Pay grade;
    e.  RIDE raw score (rating Fit); and
    f.  Proximity to expiration of contract.

6.  To further increase career opportunities, Sailors are encouraged to 
utilize Career Development Boards and the Career Exploration Module (CEM) 
within the C-WAY system.  The CEM identifies requirements Sailors must meet 
in order to qualify for desired ratings.  Sailors can retake the Armed Forces 
Classification Test to improve their scores in order to expand designation 
opportunities. Additionally, Sailors are strongly encouraged to use the job 
opportunities in Navy (JOIN) website at https://join.sscno.nmci.
navy.mil/ to identify their interests, which will help to determine best fit 
ratings.

7.  Points of contact:  For questions concerning these policy updates, 
contact the Navy Personnel Command call center at (866) 827-5672 or via e-
mail at uasknpc(at)navy.mil.  For questions regarding specific PACT 
designation applications, contact the C-WAY help desk at (901) 874-2102 or 
via e-mail at career_waypoints(at)navy.mil.

8.  This NAVADMIN will remain in effect until superseded or canceled, 
whichever comes first.

9.  Released by Vice Admiral W. F. Moran, N1.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
