UNCLASSIFIED
ROUTINE
R 061543Z JAN 17
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC
BT
UNCLAS
PASS TO OFFICE CODES:
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//

NAVADMIN 004/17

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/JAN//

SUBJ/VOLUNTARY EXTENSION OF ENLISTMENT TO COMPLETE PRESCRIBED SEA TOUR FOR 
FIRST-TERM PERSONNEL//

REF/A/DOC/COMNAVPERSCOM/27APR07//

AMPN/ REF A IS MILPERSMAN 1306-102, TYPE DUTY ASSIGNMENT CODES.//

RMKS/1.  The purpose of this NAVADMIN is to announce an opportunity for 
first-term Sailors to apply for authorization to extend their current 
enlistment to complete the prescribed sea tour for their applicable rating.  
Sailors who elect to extend their enlistment to complete their prescribed sea 
tour will benefit from additional opportunities to advance and additional 
opportunities to apply for reenlistment quotas.

2.  Eligibility.  To be eligible for this opportunity, Sailors:
    a.  must be on their first enlistment.
    b.  must have a designated Rating.
    c.  must have an expiration of active obligated service (EAOS) prior to 
31 January 2020, and prior to the month and year in which they will complete 
their prescribed sea tour.
    d.  must be on type 2, 3, or 4 sea duty as defined in reference (a).
    e.  must be recommended by their commanding officer (CO).  Those Sailors 
who are not recommended by their CO are ineligible to apply for this 
opportunity.
    f.  must have passed their most recent physical fitness assessment.
    g.  must not have any performance mark below 3.0 or an advancement 
recommendation of progressing or significant problems on the most recent 
competitive evaluation.
    h.  that are eligible will receive favorable endorsement of high-year 
tenure waivers to allow them to complete their prescribed sea tour.
    i.  that are eligible do not need an approved Career Waypoint (C-WAY) 
quota to take advantage of this opportunity.

3.  Application.  First-term Sailors who have the recommendation of their CO 
and the desire to take advantage of this opportunity may apply via an 
Enlisted Personnel Action Request (NAVPERS-1306/7). State reason for 
submission:  Extend EAOS to complete prescribed sea tour.  For non-nuclear 
Sailors the NAVPERS-1306/7 must be endorsed by their CO and emailed to pers-
81(at)navy.mil.  For nuclear Sailors the NAVPERS-1306/7 must be endorsed by 
their CO and emailed to bullnuke(at)navy.mil.

4.  Selective Reenlistment Bonus (SRB) Eligible Sailors.  SRB eligible 
Sailors shall be counseled regarding the financial implications of executing 
an extension of enlistment vice obtaining a C-WAY quota and executing a 
reenlistment contract.  Commands will ensure that the required counseling is 
documented on a permanent Administrative Remarks (NAVPERS-1070/613) in their 
enlisted master file.

5.  Process and Approval.  The EAOS extension requests will be reviewed by 
Enlisted Community Management (BUPERS-32) and Nuclear Program Manager (OPNAV 
(N133)) for impacts to rating health.  Career Progression Division (PERS-8) 
is the final approval authority for non-nuclear Sailors and OPNAV (N133) for 
nuclear Sailors extension requests.  Upon receipt of approval of their 
request members must execute the extension of enlistment within 30 days.

6.  Deadline.  All requests must be received no later than 28 February 2017 
by PERS-8 for non-nuclear trained Sailors and by OPNAV (N133) for nuclear 
trained Sailors.

7.  Documentation.  Servicing personnel offices will prepare the extension of 
enlistment only upon receipt of proper authorization from PERS-8 for non-
nuclear trained Sailors or OPNAV (N133) for nuclear trained Sailors within 30 
days of approval.  State reason for extension:  To extend EAOS to complete 
prescribed sea tour.

8.  Points of Contact.  Point of contact for PERS-81 is PSC(AW) Brian Raimann 
and he can be reached at (901) 874-3048/DSN 882 or via e-mail at 
brian.raimann(at)navy.mil and for BUPERS-32 it is Mr. Ronald Guyton and he 
can be reached at (901) 874-2825/DSN 882 or via e-mail at 
ronald.guyton(at)navy.mil.

9.  This NAVADMIN will remain in effect until 31 January 2019, unless 
canceled earlier.

10.  Released by Vice Admiral R. P. Burke, N1.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
