UNCLASSIFIED/

ROUTINE

R 201649Z APR 15

FM CNO WASHINGTON DC

TO NAVADMIN

INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC

BT
UNCLAS

SUBJ/PLANNING AND GUIDANCE FOR MIGRATION FROM MICROSOFT WINDOWS 7 AND ALL 
PRIOR VERSIONS OF WINDOWS OPERATING SYSTEMS 

NAVADMIN 091/15 

POC/CRICCHIO/GS15/OPNAV N2N6BC1/-/TEL:  571-256-8510/EMAIL:
MICHAEL.CRICCHIO1(AT)NAVY.MIL//

RMKS/1.  On 13 January 2015, Microsoft announced end of mainstream support 
and the beginning of the lifecycle extended support phase for the Windows 
(WIN) 7 operating system (OS).  Extend support is available through 14 
January 2020.  This NAVADMIN alerts resource sponsors (RSs) and program 
managers (PMs) to plan and observe guidance in order to achieve a timely 
transition from WIN 7 to the next WIN OS version.

2.  PMs responsible for ashore information technology (IT) assets shall 
migrate all Next Generation Enterprise Network, Non-secure Internet Protocol 
Router Network (NIPRNET) and Secret Internet Protocol Router Network 
(SIPRNET) systems; OCONUS Navy Enterprise Network, NIPRNET, SIPRNET, and Top 
Secret/Sensitive Compartment Information systems; and Navy legacy network 
systems and applications to WIN 10 or more advanced Microsoft OS environment 
no later than
14 January 2020.  The program funding plan for migration should occur during 
the program objective memorandum 2018 (POM-18) budget cycle.  Effective 1 
October 2017, IT procurements submitted for the WIN 7 OS will be disapproved.

3.  PMs responsible for afloat IT assets, including platform and weapons 
systems IT, operating in the Consolidated Afloat Network Enterprise Service 
(CANES) environment shall migrate to the WIN 8 OS in order to align with 
CANES OS fielding plan. CANES will begin to upgrade to WIN 10 in FY19 
therefore the program and funding plan for system and application migration 
to WIN 10 in FY19 and beyond should take place during the POM-18 budget 
cycle. Remaining Integrated Shipboard Network System (ISNS) and platform 
centric networks associated with LPD-17 Common Operating Environment, LCS 
Total Ship Computing Environment, and DDG-1000 Total Ship Computing 
environments should plan for WIN 10 migration during the POM-18 budget cycle 
as applicable.

4.  RSs, PMs, and Command Information Officers are prohibited from 
negotiating with vendors for command extended WIN 7 support agreements.  Any 
IT procurement requests for an individual extended support agreement 
submitted after 1 October 2017 will be disapproved.

5.  Released by VADM Ted N. Branch, OPNAV N2N6.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//

