UNCLASSIFIED

ROUTINE

R 232141Z SEP 15

FM CNO WASHINGTON DC

TO NAVADMIN

INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC

BT
UNCLAS
NAVADMIN 226/15

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/SEP//

SUBJ/ACTIVE-DUTY PROMOTIONS TO THE PERMANENT GRADES OF CAPTAIN, COMMANDER, 
LIEUTENANT COMMANDER, LIEUTENANT, AND CHIEF WARRANT OFFICERS IN THE LINE AND 
STAFF CORPS//

REF/A/DOC/OPNAV/11JUL11//

REF/B/DOC/OPNAV/28FEB12//

REF/C/DOC/SECNAV/15DEC05//

REF/D/DOC/COMNAVPERSCOM/23JUL07//

NARR/REF A IS OPNAVINST 6110.1J, PHYSICAL READINESS PROGRAM.  REF B IS 
OPNAVINST 1811.3A, VOLUNTARY RETIREMENT AND TRANSFER TO THE FLEET RESERVE OF 
MEMBERS OF THE NAVY SERVING ON ACTIVE DUTY.  REF C IS SECNAVINST 1920.6C, 
ADMINISTRATIVE SEPARATION OF OFFICERS.  REF D IS MILPERSMAN ARTICLE 1070-180, 
OFFICER PHOTOGRAPHS.//

RMKS/1.  Congratulations to the following officers on their promotions to the 
ranks indicated in this message.  This NAVADMIN is the authority for 
effecting permanent officer promotions on the dates indicated.  Columns read 
name and designator.
                       PERMANENT PROMOTION TO CAPTAIN
                    SENATE CONFIRMATION DATE 25 JUNE 2014
                       DOR/EFF DATE 1 SEPTEMBER 2015
 Allen Calliope E         2100
               CAPTAIN LINE AND STAFF SENATE CONFIRMATION DATE
                  LINE 23 JUNE 2015      STAFF 23 JUNE 2015
                        DOR/EFF DATE 1 OCTOBER 2015
 Andros Bradley James     1140         Blumenberg Clifford A    2100
 Butler Sarah Marie       2900         Caroland James L         1810
 Elkowitz Brian P         1120         Gainer Andrew D          1820
 Hao Melanie Rae Norton   1200         Huber Todd Charles       1310
 Kenney Michael D Jr      5100         Kent Thurraya Sharai     1650
 Konrad Taras Josaphat    2200         Kuhn Laurence J          2100
 Lindfors Eric Carter     1110         Ling Paul John III       1230
 Okano Elizabeth Sei      1440         Parks Chester Thomas     1120
 Peppetti Jon Dominick    2500         Pronesti Jeffrey J       1520
 Senenko Christopher Mich 1110         Smith David E            3100
 Sterbis Christopher Jame 1800         Supko Michael James      1510
 Turner James P           6480         Walton Heather Jean      6530
 Whaley Scott R           1830
                      PERMANENT PROMOTION TO COMMANDER
              COMMANDER LINE AND STAFF SENATE CONFIRMATION DATE
                 LINE 23 JUNE 2015      STAFF 05 AUGUST 2015
                        DOR/EFF DATE 1 OCTOBER 2015
 Ainsworth Lyle Patrick   1520         Albin Eugene Alvah       1820
 Bennett Rhonda Lahela    2900         Bergstrom Curt A         2100
 Beris Jonathan Victor    1830         Biggs Carl Tymon         1440
 Bowens Desobry Edward    1310         Burzynski Karin Ruth     1650
 Carcavallo Paolo Jr      1710         Colleran Travis Paul     3100
 Crook Jacquelyn Cara     1800         Doherty Brian David      1200
 Domenico Mark Douglas    1320         Eisenberg Nicole Case    2200
 Grabus Andrew Paul       1810         Haase Lydia Battey       2900
 Hair Leslie Chris        2300         Hall Andrew Benjamin     1320
 Hutchinson Clifton Henry 2500         Jackson Jeremiah David   1110
 James Jerin Timothy      1510         Jenkins Joseph Sheldon   2300
 Kerr Kenneth Martin      1310         Medina Rafaeldionis      6510
 Patras Wayne Alvin       1310         Quidem Theodore Mac Orpi 1110
 Schwalbe Kenneth Emanuel 5100         Seigh Mark R             2100
 Shane Clayton Gregory    1310         Sheu Robert Gregory      2100
 Shipp Joseph Bryan       1310         Steenson Justin Everett  1320
 Todd Glenn Robert        1310         Ward Edward Fay III      1310
 Williams Robert Allen    1310
                 PERMANENT PROMOTION TO LIEUTENANT COMMANDER
FY-16 SELECTION BOARD RESULTS ARE PENDING SENATE CONFIRMATION
        LIEUTENANT COMMANDER LINE AND STAFF SENATE CONFIRMATION DATE
               LINE 31 JULY 2014      STAFF 17 SEPTEMBER 2014
                       DOR/EFF DATE 1 SEPTEMBER 2015
 Bloodsaw Larry Darnell J 6420         Kemp Tamara Leigh        2100
                      PERMANENT PROMOTION TO LIEUTENANT
                        DOR/EFF DATE 1 OCTOBER 2014
 Ramseur Joshua D         1110
                        DOR/EFF DATE 1 FEBRUARY 2015
 Park Jason Jonghan       1110
                       DOR/EFF DATE 1 SEPTEMBER 2015
 Mack Kimberly Uyvonne    2900         Onyango Anne Namangare   3100
                        DOR/EFF DATE 1 OCTOBER 2015
 Abell Jason Craig        1810         Aderibigbe Moronkeji Sim 5100
 Alessandria Joseph Micha 1120         Allison Ashley E         1110
 Andersen Aaron Michael   1310         Andrews Richard Alan II  2500
 Artman Jacob Scott       1110         Ayalaallen Melissa Victo 2300
 Baker Patrick Joseph     2300         Barbour George Bernard I 1830
 Barton Jerry Joan        2300         Belber David Balanova Jr 2300
 Berry James Michael      1110         Bersin Bradford Robert   1120
 Black Christopher M      3100         Bohanan Jeremy Ray       1120
 Borland Andrew Duncan    1170         Brady Shane Michael      1310
 Brinton Alexander Marsha 1120         Bristow Janet Erin       2900
 Brooks Matthew Alan      2300         Busta Matthew James      1170
 Carlson Frederick Albert 1120         Castillo Alexander Charl 1310
 Chase Nicholas Lawrence  1170         Clark Makiko             2300
 Cole Marikit Azucena     3100         Crotty Alainna Christine 2900
 Cunningham Elizabeth Sar 2300         Deyoung Christopher Thom 1120
 Diacogiannis Jeremiah Da 1370         Divis Jeffrey Andrew     1210
 Ek Valerie Ann           2900         Espinosa Sherleen Paullo 2300
 Eudy Claire Smith        1110         Feng Mo                  1830
 Fluke Andrea Marie       2900         Freidhoff Philip Long    1120
 Fuld Matthew Brian       1120         Gaume Amber Courtney     1110
 Gillaspy Julie A         2500         Graham Robert Marshal    1170
 Grooters Eric Joseph     1310         Gutierrez Juliana        2900
 Guzman Jon Ray Santiago  2900         Hagan Samanda Davina Bry 2300
 Hall William James       1110         Hamann Charles Stephen   1220
 Hampsher Jesse Richard   1310         Hedjazi Nicholas Sid     1120
 Hughes Andrew William    3100         Johnson Randy Kirk Jr    1820
 Jordan Daniel James      1120         Juniper Zachary Ryan     4100
 Kapral Daniel Joseph     1120         Kelly Valarie Parker     6440
 Keme Desmond Soyi        2900         Kempf Cynthia Ann        2900
 Khokhar Balal Ahmad      5100         Knapek Richard Andrew    1110
 Kopesky Rebekah Jenae    2900         Kowalski Ross Martin     1110
 Kroll Joshua J           1120         Kroodsma Nathaniel Dale  1210
 Lamott Kevin Thomas      1120         Larro Chelsea Ruth       2300
 Lasseigne Jessica Jean   2300         Leach Rebekah Jean       1210
 Leighow Diana Alice      2300         Lerch Tiffany Caitlin    2900
 Lokkins Keith Daniel     1170         Lovett Jessica Anne      1170
 Lundberg John Craig II   2500         Medlin Joshua James      2900
 Messer Kevin Donald      1170         Mikkelson Andrew Christo 1170
 Minde Cheyanne Kimberlym 2900         Moore Daniel Oscar       2500
 Myers Eric Michael       1200         Nadenbousch Philip Danie 1210
 Noble Benjamin Eric      3100         Olson Taryn Elizabeth    2900
 Parry Jonathon Kenneth   1310         Pearson Charles Todd     2900
 Piela Cassy Ann          2900         Putnam Tyler Henry       1120
 Quade Jason David        2900         Ramos Cesar Alejandro    1110
 Rappold Renee Joy        2900         Roberts Glenn Ryan       1110
 Rowland Michael Joseph J 1110         Scarbrough Phillip Andre 4100
 Schroeder Martin Fitzger 1170         Seagrave Joshua Brian    1120
 Smidt Tyler Craig        1110         Starr Jacob R            1110
 Steele James Anthony     1220         Strain William J         1320
 Tabi Patrick Maranon     1110         Thill Jason Alfred       1110
 Wallace Christopher Scot 2300         Ward Samuel James        1120
 Williams Malory Elizabet 2300         Wu Louis Shenchen        1120
 Yameen Tarik Jamiel      1170         Yochum Lee C             1110
                LIMITED DUTY OFFICER PROMOTION TO LIEUTENANT
                        DOR/EFF DATE 1 DECEMBER 2014
 Osbey Marshall Eugene    6402
                        DOR/EFF DATE 1 OCTOBER 2015
 Bradley Verbon David III 6402         Bussell Jeremy Stephen   6462
 Clemente Michael Anthony 6162         Davis John Richard Jr    6182
 Duncan Itro Shimei       6112         Edwards James Nathan     6402
 Edwards Preston Lamont   6442         England Jonathan Patrick 6182
 Gill Bryan James         6412         Griffith Steven Thomas   6262
 Hatfield Gaston A Jr     6132         Huett Joseph Wayne       6132
 James Timothy Allen      6412         Johnson Joshua Robert    6452
 Jones Temi Ashafa        6122         Kesterson Douglas Andrew 6362
 Kuester Kyle David       6332         Kus Christopher Michael  6262
 Lewis James Richmond Jr  6162         Link Steven Collins      6332
 Meadors Nicholas Matthew 6402         Peoples Michael Francis  6262
 Pickler Brian Andrew     6442         Riosrivera Antonio J     6422
 Rodriguez Mark Anthony   6312         Sanford Daren Lynn       6162
 Sawyers Matthew John     6402         Thatcher James Roy       6442
 Treanor Eric Michael     6422         Ullrich Gary Edward      6182
 Wallen Sheldon Carmichae 6332         West Joshua D            6402
              PERMANENT PROMOTION TO CHIEF WARRANT OFFICER, W-5
                        DOR/EFF DATE 1 OCTOBER 2015
 Bennett Joseph Alan      7311
              PERMANENT PROMOTION TO CHIEF WARRANT OFFICER, W-4
                         DOR/EFF DATE 1 APRIL 2015
 Bossous Wilfrid          7311
                        DOR/EFF DATE 1 OCTOBER 2015
 Benn Eric Ernest         7131         Collins Eric Ephron      7121
 Muller Dawn Louise       7421         Northern Rayvon          7311
 Panion Gary Rudolph      7421         Rearden Frank Everett    7131
 Rotan Matthew Fuller     7201         Thomas Michael Franklin  7121
              PERMANENT PROMOTION TO CHIEF WARRANT OFFICER, W-3
                        DOR/EFF DATE 1 OCTOBER 2015
 Alston Melvin L          7121         Armstrong Dustin Lee     7181
 Bassett Jeremy R         7121         Blancarte Jorge Francisc 7121
 Cumings George O III     7161         Delao Andrew             7401
 Depew Matthew Cole       7331         Diaz Elvis               7131
 Emerson Robert Dean      7361         Farrington Jason Albert  7331
 Franklin Antonio Dnale   7411         George Kareem Levar      7131
 Gonzalez Elvis Luis      7411         Hall Anthony Deshay      7411
 Hamilton Charles         7411         Ingle Kenneth Allan      7411
 Iwaniec John Michael     7421         Johnson Chad Anthony     7131
 Johnston Mark Robert     7331         Mincica Daniel John      7421
 Nastasi David Nicholas   7201         Pennington Micki Kay     7441
 Pippen Earnest Clevelle  7111         Renner Ryan Gordon       7171
 Samuels Demetrius Lopez  7331         Selhorst Kevin Michael   7361
 Shaw Scott Philip        7131         Staggers Juan Antonio    7131
 Walters William Sidney I 7161         Walton Rodraigus Antonio 7131
 Wirth Raymond William Jr 7121

2.  If a selected officer does not decline his or her promotion in writing 
prior to his or her projected date of rank (noted above in paragraph 1), that 
officer is considered to have accepted the promotion on the date indicated.  
An officer who chooses to decline his or her promotion must submit the 
declination in writing to COMNAVPERSCOM (PERS-806), prior to the effective 
date indicated above.  Limited duty officers declining appointment to 
lieutenant will be reverted to enlisted status within 90 days of projected 
promotion date.

3.  The commanding officer (CO), the Secretary of the Navy or his designee, 
have the authority to delay projected appointments.  Upon the exercise of a 
delay, the officer shall be notified in writing before the effective date of 
the appointment, and not be tendered the appointment.  The delay authority 
will immediately forward the recommendation to delay with supporting 
documentation to COMNAVPERSCOM (PERS-83), copy to COMNAVPERSCOM (PERS-806).

4.  COs are reminded of their responsibility to ensure the officers they are 
promoting are mentally, physically, morally and
professionally qualified.   Per reference (a), officers are
ineligible for promotion if they have failed the most recent Physical Fitness 
Assessment.  COs shall verify the promoting officer's information in the 
Physical Readiness Information Management System (PRIMS) to ensure compliance 
with reference (a) and delay the officers promotion in accordance with 
paragraph 3 if required.

5.  Prepare a Delivery of Temporary/Permanent Appointment (NAVPERS form 
1421/7) (Rev 10-13).  Use this NAVADMIN as reference (a).  Use section 624 of 
title 10, U.S. Code as reference (b), for permanent lieutenants and above.  
Use section of title 10, U.S.C. 578 as reference (b), for chief warrant 
officers.  Use sections 624 and
5589 of title 10, U.S. Code as reference (b), for limited duty officer 
promotion to lieutenant.  Limited duty officer appointment to lieutenant is a 
permanent appointment; acceptance of the appointment is acceptance of 
permanent appointment as a limited duty officer.  Mail the completed form to 
COMNAVPERSCOM (PERS-806).

6.  Officers should review reference (b), for minimum time-in-grade 
requirements for purposes of voluntary retirement.  Full time support 
officers and those officers temporarily on active duty anticipating release 
from active duty under reference (c), may accept promotion without incurring 
any additional active-duty obligation.

7.  New photographs are required for all officers within three months after 
acceptance of promotion.  See reference (d), for specific requirements.

8.  Released by Vice Admiral W. F. Moran, N1.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
