UNCLASSIFIED

ROUTINE

R 251900Z SEP 15

FM CNO WASHINGTON DC

TO NAVADMIN

BT
UNCLAS
NAVADMIN 229/15

SUBJ/TRANSITION OF OCEANOGRAPHER AND NAVIGATOR OF NAVY DUTIES//

REF/A/DOC/DEPSECDEF/31JUL2013//

REF/B/MSG/CNO WASHINGTON DC/172208ZJUL01/NAVADMIN 178/01//

REF/C/DOC/OPNAVINST 5430.48E/29NOV2011//

REF/D/DOC/OPNAVINST 5430.56A/19DEC2014//

NARR/REF A IS DOD MEMO DIRECTING DOD AND SERVICE HEADQUARTERS STAFF 
REDUCTIONS OF TWENTY PERCENT BY 2019.  REF B DESIGNATED CNO (N096) NAVIGATOR 
OF THE NAVY AND DIRECTED FORMATION OF NAVIGATION SUBJECT MATTER EXPERT TEAM. 
REF C IS THE NAVY ORGANIZATION & OPERATIONS MANUAL.  REF D IS THE NAVAL 
OCEANOGRAPHY POLICY, RELATIONSHIPS, AND RESPONSIBILITIES INSTRUCTION.// 
POC/VINCENT/CDR/CNO N2N6ET/-/TEL: 202-762-
0601/EMAIL:DOMINICK.VINCENT@NAVY.MIL//
POC/MEMMEN/CAPT/CNO N2N6E4/-/TEL: 571-256-8231/EMAIL:SEAN.MEMMEN@NAVY.MIL//

RMKS/1.  Reference (a) directed headquarters staff reductions across the 
Department of Defense (DoD) to include the staff of the Chief of Naval 
Operations. Included among the reductions was the Oceanographer and Navigator 
of the Navy billet (OPNAV N2/N6E).  Until further notice, the Echelon-1 
functions of OPNAV N2/N6E as outlined in references (b) through (d) will be 
assumed on an additional duty (ADDU) basis by Commander, Naval Meteorology 
and Oceanography Command (COMNAVMETOCCOM) Stennis Space Center, who will 
continue to execute all Echelon-3 missions and function under Commander, U.S. 
Fleet Forces.  The Echelon-1 functions of OPNAV N2/N6E include:  Director of 
the DoD office of Maritime Domain Awareness, Director of Navy Task Force 
Climate Change, and Naval Deputy to the National Oceanic and Atmospheric 
Administration.

2.  In this ADDU position, OPNAV N2/N6E will report directly to the Deputy 
Chief of Naval Operations for Information Dominance (OPNAV N2/N6), and will 
maintain and supervise an Echelon-1 staff that is separate and distinct from 
the COMNAVMETOCCOM Echelon-3 staff.  The function of Deputy Oceanographer and 
Navigator of the Navy will be retained by the Senior Leader/Senior Executive 
member of the Echelon-1 staff and is responsible for the day-to-day operation 
of all OPNAV N2/N6E branches.

3.  While the construct under which Flag Officers are assigned to the 
position of Oceanographer and Navigator of the Navy is changing, the 
importance of the position to the Navys safety, readiness, warfighting 
capability, environmental awareness, and navigational excellence is not 
diminished.

4.  Released by VADM Ted Branch, OPNAV N2/N6.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
