UNCLASSIFIED

ROUTINE

R 051654Z SEP 17

FM CNO WASHINGTON DC

TO NAVADMIN

INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC

BT
UNCLAS
PASS TO OFFICE CODES:
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//

NAVADMIN 141/17

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/JUN//

SUBJ/PHYSICAL READINESS PROGRAM POLICY CHANGES (CORRECTED COPY)//

REF/A/DOC/OPNAV/11JUL11//

REF/B/DOC/NAVPERS/APR17//

NARR/REF A IS OPNAVINST 6110.1J, PHYSICAL READINESS PROGRAM.
REF B IS NAVPERS 15839I, MANUAL OF NAVY OFFICER MANPOWER AND PERSONNEL 
CLASSIFICATIONS.//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN outlines new policies and initiatives to the Physical 
Readiness Program and continues our efforts to strike a better balance 
between physical readiness and mission accomplishment while reducing 
administrative distractions.  This correction clarifies that the changes of 
paragraph 3 are effective immediately.

2.  The following changes are effective 1 January 2018:
    a.  Sailors who pass the body composition assessment (BCA), are within 
the Navy age-graduated body fat standards, and score an overall excellent low 
or better (with no single event lower than good low) on the physical 
readiness test (PRT) will be exempt from participation in the following PRT 
cycle.  The first cycle for which Sailors can be exempt is cycle 2018-1, 
based upon performance during the cycle 2017-2 PRT.  All Sailors, regardless 
of PRT performance, will still be required to participate in the BCA each 
cycle.
        (1) For cycle 2018-1, Physical Readiness Information Management 
System (PRIMS) will allow command fitness leaders (CFL) the ability to assign 
a non-participation status of validated for those Sailors who earn the 
incentive during cycle 2017-2.
        (2) If a Sailor is validated from taking the PRT, but fails the BCA, 
the Sailor is required to participate in the PRT if medically cleared.
    b.  Elliptical will no longer be authorized as an alternate cardio device 
beginning with cycle 2018-1 due to the low number of Sailors (4 percent) who 
use them during a PRT and the increasing cost to maintain PRT-compliant 
ellipticals.  While the 1.5 mile run/walk remains the service standard, 
commanding officers (CO) may authorize the use of approved stationary bikes, 
treadmill or the swim as alternate cardio.  Navy fitness facilities will 
continue to provide ellipticals for training, but will now be free to 
modernize equipment.

3.  The following change is effective immediately:  Based on data from 
recently completed Navy medical studies and consistent with recent changes to 
maternity leave policy, post-partum Sailors are now exempt from participating 
in the physical fitness assessment
(PFA) for 6 months following their maternity leave.  This change reflects an 
increase to the Navy maternity leave policy being increased to 84 days 
following the birth of a child.  After completion of the 6 month period, the 
Sailor will then be required to participate in the following PFA cycle (i.e., 
if the pregnancy status ends during cycle 1, Sailors would not be expected to 
participate in an official command PFA until cycle 2).  Pregnant and post-
partum Sailors are not required to complete a Physical Activity Risk Factor 
Questionnaire while in the pregnancy status.  Their PFA participation status 
in PRIMS should be reflected as pregnant for all stages of the pregnancy and 
post-partum periods.

4.  CFLS must review the operating guides of the Physical Readiness Program 
for additional information.  Additional information can be found on the 
website:  http://www.public.navy.mil/bupers-
npc/support/21st_Century_Sailor/physical.

5.  Released by Vice Admiral R. P. Burke, N1.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
