UNCLASSIFIED
ROUTINE
R 261501Z MAY 16
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC
BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 121/16

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/DNS/MAY//

SUBJ/CORRECTED COPY ZIKA VIRUS RISK MITIGATION//

REF/A/DOC/DOD/9OCT2004//
REF/B/DOC/MILPERSMAN/14JUN2007//
REF/C/DOC/DOD/28DEC2009//
REF/D/DOC/CNO/11APR2012
REF/E/DOC/AFPMB/6NOV2015//
REF/F/DOC/DOD/11MAR2016//
REF/G/DOC/ASN(EIE)/26APR2016//
NARR/REF A IS DOD DIRECTIVE (DODD) 6200.04, FORCE HEALTH PROTECTION.
REF B IS MILPERSMAN 1050-250, FOREIGN LEAVE TRAVEL. REF C IS DODD 4500.54E, 
DOD FOREIGN CLEARANCE PROGRAM.  REF D IS OPNAVINST 6250.4C, NAVY PEST 
MANAGEMENT PROGRAMS. REF E IS ARMED FORCES PEST MANAGEMENT BOARD TECHNICAL 
GUIDE NUMBER 36, PERSONAL PROTECTIVE MEASURES AGAINST INSECTS AND OTHER 
ARTHROPODS OF MILITARY SIGNIFICANCE.  REF F IS OSD(P&R) MEMORANDUM, PERSONNEL 
OPTIONS IN RESPONSE TO THE ZIKA VIRUS. REF G IS ASN(EI&E) MEMORANDUM, OSD 
MEMORANDUM  STRATEGY FOR CONTROL OF ZIKA VIRUS TRANSMITTING MOSQUITOS ON 
MILITARY INSTALLATIONS AND HOUSING AREAS.

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN cancels NAVADMIN 032/16 and provides Commanders 
information, travel precautions, and mitigation measures for Zika virus that 
supplement existing travel and installation pest control policy and guidance 
found in references (a) through (g).

2.  Zika is a viral infection primarily spread by mosquito bites.  The virus 
also can spread through blood transfusions and unprotected sexual contact 
with an infected man.  Zika virus infection during pregnancy can cause 
microcephaly and other birth defects.  Currently, Zika virus outbreaks are 
occurring in numerous areas throughout the world.  The Centers for Disease 
Control and Prevention (CDC) has issued Travel Notices for countries and 
territories reporting Zika virus outbreaks.

3.  Zika virus symptoms may include fever, red and irritated eyes, rash, 
joint and muscle aches, and headache.  Most people infected with Zika virus 
have no symptoms.  If symptoms occur, they typically appear 2-7 days after 
being infected.  Currently, no vaccine or drug is available to prevent Zika 
virus infection, and there is no specific treatment for the disease.

4.  Personnel who develop Zika virus-like symptoms within two weeks of 
traveling to an area of active Zika virus transmission, or within two weeks 
of unprotected sex with a man potentially exposed to Zika virus, should 
contact their healthcare provider immediately.  The CDC recommends pregnant 
women postpone travel to any area with active Zika virus transmission.  
Female Service members, DoD employees, and dependents who are pregnant should 
consult with their healthcare provider before traveling to an area where 
mosquitoes are transmitting Zika virus.

5.  The best way to prevent Zika virus infection is to avoid mosquito bites 
(both day and night) while in areas of active transmission and avoid 
unprotected sex with a man who may have been exposed to Zika virus.  Mosquito 
bites can largely be prevented by strictly following the personal protective 
measures detailed in reference (e).

6.  The CDC recommends the following for prevention of sexual transmission of 
Zika virus for couples in which a man has traveled to or resides in an area 
with active Zika virus transmission:
    a.  Couples in which a woman is pregnant should use condoms consistently 
and correctly or abstain from sex for the duration of the pregnancy.
    b.  Couples in which a man had confirmed Zika virus infection or clinical 
illness consistent with Zika virus disease should consider using condoms or 
abstaining from sex for at least 6 months after onset of illness.
    c.  Couples in which a man traveled to an area with active Zika virus 
transmission but did not develop symptoms of Zika virus disease should 
consider using condoms or abstaining from sex for at least eight weeks after 
departure from the area.
    d.  Couples in which a man resides in an area with active Zika virus 
transmission but has not developed symptoms of Zika virus disease might 
consider using condoms or abstaining from sex while active transmission 
persists.

7.  The CDC recommends the following regarding couples considering 
conception:
    a.  Women who have Zika virus disease should wait at least eight weeks 
after symptom onset to attempt conception.
    b.  Men with Zika virus disease should wait at least six months after 
symptom onset to attempt conception.
    c.  Women and men with possible exposure to Zika virus but without 
clinical illness consistent with Zika virus disease should wait at least 
eight weeks after exposure to attempt conception.

8.  Commanders will:
    a.  Ensure personnel traveling to areas with active Zika virus 
transmission, whether on duty or in a leave status, are aware of the CDC 
Travel Notices and are compliant with all Force Health Protection measures.
    b.  Advise Service members and DON employees to make their dependents 
aware of the CDC Travel Notices.
    c.  Follow reference (f) guidance when addressing requests for relocation 
from pregnant Service members, DON employees, and dependents located in areas 
outside of the U.S. with active Zika virus transmission.
    d.  Installation commanding officers will implement the Assistant 
Secretary of the Navy for Energy, Intallations, and Evironment   memorandum 
that cites the OSD strategy to control Zika virus transmitting mosquitoes on 
DoD installations and housing areas detailed in reference (g).  CNIC will 
promulgate implementation plan through Region Commanders.
    e.  Installation commanding officers will ensure Public Health Emergency 
Officers (PHEOs) and installation vector control staff coordinate efforts 
with state and local counterparts.  Installation vector surveillance and 
control plans shall be synchronized with civilian activities.

7.  CDC Zika virus travel notices can be accessed at
http://wwwnc.cdc.gov/travel/page/zika-travel-information.  
Additional Zika virus information can be found at:
http://www.med.navy.mil/sites/nmcphc/program-and-policy-support/Pages/Zika-
virus.aspx and http://www.cdc.gov/zika/.

8.  Released by Vice Admiral R. L. Thomas, Director, Navy Staff.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
