UNCLASSIFIED//
ROUTINE
R 151533Z JUL 19
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC
BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 158/19

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/DNS//

SUBJ/NAVY CIVILIAN ACCULTURATION PROGRAM (NCAP) ROLLOUT//

REF/A/DOC/CNO/DEC 2018//
AMPN/REF A IS A DESIGN FOR MAINTAINING MARITIME SUPERIORITY V2.0, WHICH 
INCLUDES DIRECTION UNDER THE GOLD LINE OF EFFORT TO DEVELOP NAVY-WIDE 
GUIDANCE FOR NAVY CIVILIAN ACCULTURATION.// POC/NASHOLD/SES/USFF N46/-/TEL: 
(757) 836-6206/DSN: 836-6206/EMAIL:
ELIZABETH.NASHOLD(AT)NAVY.MIL//

RMKS/1.  Purpose.  This NAVADMIN announces the rollout of the Navy Civilian 
Acculturation Program (NCAP), which was mandated by reference (a).  Request 
widest dissemination at all commands with Navy civilian personnel so that new 
civilian employees and their supervisors are aware of the NCAP debut.

2.  Background.  The NCAP introduces new Navy civilian employees to Navy 
people, structure, operations, heritage, and history.  It stresses the many 
contributions that Navy civilians make in delivering and sustaining force 
readiness, and highlights the Navy's unique roles in securing America's 
national interests.  The NCAP is specifically focused on new Navy civilian 
hires with no prior exposure to the Navy, and has therefore been designed to 
provide a broad cultural baseline.  The NCAP augments - but does not replace 
each command's unique onboarding and indoctrination programs.

3.  Launch.  Effective July 2019, the Navy is launching the first iteration 
of the NCAP, consisting of the two components described below.
    a.  Online Familiarization Material.  Available online through the Total 
Workforce Management Services (TWMS) are several familiarization modules that 
provide valuable background for new civilian hires.  This content includes 
civilian personnel orientation; Navy organization and structure; Navy 
uniformed personnel; Navy operations; Navy strategy; Navy heritage; and Navy 
history.  While this material is not intended to provide exhaustive 
background on every selected topic, it will provide a useful foundation.  The 
amount of time required to review the online NCAP material will vary, but 
estimates indicate that five or six hours should be adequate for most 
employees.
        (1) The URL for the TWMS NCAP online content listed below provides 
direct access:
https://twms.navy.mil/selfservice/online_training/viewer.asp?cid=669517
&cur=1&tot=321&module=Navy_Civilian_Acculturation_Program_(NCAP)&cert=yes
&accept=0.
        (2) The TWMS NCAP online content can also be accessed through the 
TWMS login page (https://twms.navy.mil/login.asp) by clicking on the TWMS 
self-service link near the top (https://twms.navy.mil/selfservice/); clicking 
on the Online Training and Notices button on the left under Tools/Actions; 
and clicking on the Online TWMS banner.  The TWMS NCAP Course ID is TWMS-
669517.
    b.  Fleet Orientation Visit.  After completing their review of the NCAP 
online familiarization material, selected new civilian employees based in 
Hampton Roads will be eligible to participate in the fleet orientation visit 
pilot program, a one-day event that introduces new Navy civilians to Fleet 
units.  Included in this visit are engagements with senior Fleet leaders; 
base tours; visits to units of the operating forces; lunch with uniformed 
personnel; and opportunities to discuss topics of interest during informal 
meet-and-greet sessions with Officer and Enlisted personnel.  Priority for 
participating in the orientation visit will be accorded to newly hired 
civilian personnel from commands that do not already have comprehensive 
acculturation programs or routine exposure to units of the operating forces.

4.  Next Steps
    a.  NCAP Online Content Adjustment.  The NCAP online familiarization 
material will be updated where warranted based upon user feedback from the 
initial rollout, and will be refreshed periodically thereafter.  TWMS 
includes a feedback mechanism that permits personnel who have completed the 
online content review to submit recommendations via e-mail to the NCAP 
management team at USFF_NFLT_NCAP_TEAM(AT)navy.mil.
    b.  Orientation Visit Program Expansion.  Following the initial pilot in 
Hampton Roads and the incorporation of feedback and lessons learned, Navy 
intends to offer the fleet orientation visit in other fleet concentration 
areas so that more civilians can gain first-hand exposure to the Navy's 
operating forces.
    c.  New Navy Civilian Employee Handbook.  An abbreviated, downloadable 
version of the NCAP online content will be made available in handbook form so 
that new civilian employees will have a ready reference to guide them through 
the initial phase of their government service.

5.  NCAP Sustainment.  Close coordination between and among Human Resource 
Offices, area tenant commands, and various Fleet echelons will be required to 
sustain this initiative and deliver its intended outcome.  Similarly, 
civilian personnel supervisors will need to ensure that their new civilian 
hires are encouraged to review NCAP material and to participate in 
Operational Forces Orientation Visits as those opportunities become 
available.

6.  Additional Navy civilian onboarding and reference material remains 
available through the Office of Civilian Human Resources
(OCHR) website at https://www.secnav.navy.mil/donhr/Pages/default.aspx 
under the Benefits and Rewards and Current Employees tabs, and through the 
CAC-enabled OCHR portal at 
https://portal.secnav.navy.mil/orgs/MRA/DONHR/Pages/Default.aspx.

7.  Released by Ms. Steffanie B. Easter, Director, Navy Staff.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//

