UNCLASSIFIED//

ROUTINE

R 031525Z JUN 19

FM CNO WASHINGTON DC

TO NAVADMIN

INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC

BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 124/19

PASS TO OFFICE CODES:
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/JUN//

SUBJ/CONVENING OF THE FY-20 FULL TIME SUPPORT CAPTAIN SELECTIVE RETENTION 
BOARD//

REF/A/DOC/SECNAV/15DEC05//

REF/B/DOC/OPNAV/01AUG15//

NARR/REF A IS SECNAVINST 1920.6C, ADMINISTRATIVE SEPARATION OF OFFICERS.  REF 
B IS OPNAV ACTION MEMO, CONTINUOUS EXCEPTION TO POLICY  MODIFICATION OF 
INVOLUNTARY SEPARATION DATE FOR FIRST GATE NON-CONTINUED FULL-TIME SUPPORT 
CAPTAINS.//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN announces the convening of the FY-20 Full Time Support 
(FTS) Captain Selective Retention (SELRET) Board.

2.  The SELRET Board is required to retain FTS captains beyond 3 years time 
in grade bringing FTS inventory in line with authorized end strength, 
allowing for stable promotion opportunity and permitting sufficient junior 
officer accessions to meet FTS officer operational requirements.

3.  The FTS Captain SELRET Board will convene on 16 September 2019 to 
consider FTS Captains in all competitive categories for retention.  FTS 
Captains promoted during FY-18 will have their records reviewed for their 
first gate and FTS Captains promoted during FY-15 will have their records 
reviewed for their second gate.  In line with reference (a), second gate FTS 
Captains not selected for retention will retire or be released from active 
duty no later than 1 September 2020.  In line with reference (b), first gate 
FTS Captains not selected for retention will retire or be released from 
active duty no later than 1 September 2021.  In either case, FTS officers 
will be retained on active duty, if necessary, to enable the officer to 
become eligible for a regular active duty retirement.

4.  Amplifying information can be accessed via MyNavy Portal at 
https://www.mnp.navy.mil/group/career-planning, then selecting Officer 
Community Managers (OCM), Reserve OCM, FTS and then FTS SELRET.  The 
authorized number of selections for retention will be posted as part of the 
board convening order after the board has convened.  An example letter to 
selection boards is also available on the same website.

5.  Point of contact is CDR Christopher Kelmis, BUPERS 351C, at (901) 874-
4346/DSN 882 or via e-mail at christopher.kelmis1(at)navy.mil.

6.  This message will remain in effect until superseded or canceled, 
whichever comes first.

7.  Released by Vice Admiral John B. Nowell, Jr, N1.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//

