RTTUZYUW RUEWMCS0129 1541745-UUUU--RUCRNAD
ZNR UUUUU
R 031745Z JUN 14 PSN 288174H30
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//
TO NAVADMIN
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//
BT
UNCLAS//N01530//

NAVADMIN 129/14

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/JUN//

SUBJ/FY-15 JUDGE ADVOCATE GENERAL'S CORPS IN-SERVICE PROCUREMENT PROGRAM 
SELECTION BOARD// 

REF/A/DOC/OPNAV/30APR13// 
REF/B/DOC/OPNAV/28FEB12//
NARR/REF A IS JUDGE ADVOCATE GENERAL'S CORPS IN-SERVICE PROCUREMENT PROGRAM 
AUTHORIZATION 111A.  REF B IS OPNAVINST 1811.3A, VOLUNTARY RETIREMENT AND 
TRANSFER TO THE FLEET RESERVE OF MEMBERS OF THE NAVY SERVING ON ACTIVE-
DUTY.//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN announces convening of the FY-15 Judge Advocate 
General's Corps (JAGC) In-Service Procurement Program (IPP) Selection Board 
no earlier than February 2015.  The JAGC IPP provides outstanding, career-
motivated enlisted personnel of all ratings, who meet the eligibility 
criteria, the opportunity to earn a commission in the JAGC.  The FY-15 board 
will accept applications for the funded legal education option and the Direct 
Commission Option (DCO). 

2.  This program is open to active-duty enlisted Sailors and Navy full-time 
support (FTS) personnel in any rating or military occupational specialty in 
paygrades E5 through E7 at the time of the application.  Applicants must have 
served on active-duty for a period no less than two years and no more than 10 
years at the time applications are due.  Members of the individual ready 
reserve (IRR) or serving on active-duty for special work (ADSW), active-duty 
for training (ADT), or one-to-three year recalls are not eligible for this 
program. 

3.  Ref (a) provides information on authorized program benefits, eligibility, 
obligated service, and program requirements.  The requirement in ref (a) for 
funded legal education program applicants to submit at least one law school 
acceptance letter is replaced by the requirements in paragraph 6.c. below.  
No other waivers will be granted. 

4.  Application procedures are provided in ref (a), and this NAVADMIN.  
Further program information can be found at 
http://www.jag.navy.mil/careers/careers/opportunities_ipp.html and 
http://www.cnrc.navy.mil/program-authorizations.htm.  

5.  Applicants must not have reached their 42nd birthday by time of initial 
appointment.  This requirement will not be waived.  

6.  Amplifying education information for the FY-15 board. 
    a.  Law School Admission Test (LSAT) exam scores are required for all 
applicants. 
    b.  All applicants must hold a baccalaureate degree from an accredited 
institution.  Applicants must submit their official transcripts for all 
degrees earned and a complete list of all schools attended.
    c.  Applicants applying to the funded legal education option must provide 
a prioritized list of U.S. law schools accredited by the American Bar 
Association (ABA) to which the applicant has applied.  Applicants are 
encouraged to apply to more than one school.  Applicants must apply to at 
least one law school in which in-state tuition fees can be obtained and one 
law school near the applicant's current duty station.  Applicants must 
provide a copy of any acceptance letters received prior to the convening of 
the selection board. 
    d.  Applicants applying for the DCO must have obtained a law degree 
(juris doctor) from a law school considered by the ABA to be accredited under 
provisions established by the ABA at their graduation. 
    e.  Applicants for the DCO must submit a letter or certificate of good 
standing from the licensing authority admitting the applicant to the practice 
of law before a federal court or the highest court of a state, a U.S. 
territory, the commonwealth of Puerto Rico, or the District of Columbia.
    f.  Applicants assigned to a nuclear training command or who hold a 
nuclear Navy enlisted classification (NEC) (335X, 336X, 338X, 339X) and are 
applying for the FY-15 JAGC IPP selection board must obtain a conditional 
release from nuclear field duty prior to submitting their application for 
consideration by the FY-15 board.  To obtain a conditional release, an 
applicant must submit a NAVPERS 1306/7, Enlisted Personnel Action Request, to 
OPNAV Nuclear Propulsion Program Management Branch (N133) via their detailer 
(PERS-403).  The FY-15 JAGC IPP selection board will only consider nuclear 
enlisted candidates who have a conditional release included in their JAGC IPP 
application.
    g.  For applicants not assigned to nuclear programs listed in paragraph 
6.f.:  Applicants under obligated training require a conditional release from 
their enlisted community manager (ECM).  To obtain a conditional release, an 
applicant must submit a NAVPERS 1306/7, Enlisted Personnel Action Request, to 
their ECM.  The FY-15 JAGC IPP selection board will only consider enlisted 
candidates who have a conditional release included in their JAGC IPP 
application.

7.  Applications must be postmarked no later than 5 December 2014 and mailed, 
via applicant's current commanding officer, to:   

    Commander, Navy Personnel Command 
    PERS-4416E, JAGC Accessions Office 
    5720 Integrity Drive
    Millington, TN 38055-4416  
 
Additional or amplifying documents including LSAT scores may be submitted by 
the applicant using the address listed in this message and must be post 
marked NLT 15 January 2015.  Incomplete applications will not be reviewed by 
the board. 
8.  Per ref (b), prior to submitting a completed application, applicants are 
required to contact PERS-4416E to schedule a structured interview with two 
JAGC officers.  This requirement is separate from and in addition to, the 
command interview.

9.  Point of contact is LCDR Geraldo Padilla, NPC JAGC Accessions Detailer, 
via e-mail at geraldo.padilla(at)navy.mil, or at (901) 874-4084/DSN 882. 


10.  This message is canceled for record purposes on 30 September 2015.

11.  Released by Vice Admiral W. F. Moran, N1.//

BT
#1511
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//


