UNCLASSIFIED
ROUTINE
R 282217Z FEB 18
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
INFO SECNAV WASHINGTON DC
CNO WASHINGTON DC
BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 048/18

PASS TO OFFICE CODES:
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//DNS//
MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/DNS/FEB//

SUBJ/GUIDANCE FOR PROCESSING NEW "V", "C", AND "R" DEVICES AUTHORIZED FOR 
WEAR ON CERTAIN MILITARY MEDALS AND RIBBONS//

REF/A/MSG/SECNAV/211924ZAUG17//
REF/B/MSG/CNO121452ZJUN17
REF/C/DOC/CNO/22FEB18//
REF/D/MSG/SECNAV/031938ZJUN16//
REF/E/DOC/SECNAV/22AUG2006//
NARR/REF A IS ALNAV 055/17 ANNOUNCEMENT OF CHANGES TO THE "V" DEVICE AND NEW 
DEVICES AUTHORIZED FOR WEAR ON CERTAIN MILITARY RIBBONS.
REF B IS NAVADMIN 134/17, VALOR AWARDS AND TIMELY RECOGNITION OF VALOR.  
REF C IS CHIEF OF NAVAL OPERATIONS DELEGATION OF COMBAT AWARD APPROVAL 
AUTHORITY.  
REF D IS ALNAV 041/16, COMBAT AWARDS AUTHORIZATION FOR CURRENT AND RECENTLY 
CONCLUDED OPERATIONS.
REF E IS SECNAVINST 1650.1H, NAVY AND MARINE CORPS AWARDS MANUAL.//

RMKS/1.  This message publishes temporary procedures for processing awards 
with the "V", "C", and "R" devices announced by reference (a).  Reference (a) 
is the governing directive for awarding the new devices and should be 
referenced for all specific eligibility for the Combat Conditions "C" and 
Remote Impact "R" devices.  References (a) and (b) should both be referenced 
for changes and processing procedures when recognizing valor and for the 
Valor "V" device.

2.  Specific delegation of authority to approve combat awards, including the 
"V", "C", and "R" devices for O-6 and below for Navy and Marine Corps 
Personnel, is contained in reference (c). Delegation of authority to approve 
other awards remains as stated in reference (e).  Unless specifically 
authorized under reference (c), Commanders and Commanding Officers do not 
have the authority to approve combat awards or the associated "V", "C", and 
"R" devices.
    a.  Currently, reference (c) authorizes Commander, U.S. Fleet Forces 
Command; Commander, U.S. Pacific Fleet; Commander, U.S. Naval Forces Europe, 
U.S. Naval Forces Africa; Commander, U.S. Naval Forces Central Command and, 
with limitations, Commander, U.S. Naval Forces Southern Command and 
Commander, Naval Special Warfare Command, approval of combat awards with 
devices.
    b.  If approving a medal with "R" device for having remote impact on 
operations occurring within a different Echelon II commander's area of 
responsibility, the awarding authority will obtain concurrence from the 
affected Echelon II commander.  Individual cases in which there is 
disagreement as to whether the "R" is appropriate shall be forwarded to Chief 
of Naval Operations (CNO) Awards Branch (DNS-35) for final adjudication.
    c.  Requests for authorization of the "V", "C", and "R"  devices for 
named operations not listed in reference (a) must be submitted to the 
Assistant Secretary of the Navy (Manpower and Reserve Affairs) via the 
operational chain of command and CNO.
    d.  All recommendations for Army or Air Force awards that include a "V", 
"C", and "R" device for Navy personnel shall be submitted to the CNO for 
concurrence or consideration of an appropriate Navy award.  Navy personnel 
may not accept, retain, or wear combat related awards proffered by the Army 
or Air Force without Navy concurrence.

3.  Retroactive Authorization of Devices.
    a.  A Service Member who, on or after 7 January 2016, received any award 
that could now be eligible for the "C" or "R" device may request 
reconsideration.  Such requests must first be forwarded to the officer or 
command which approved the original award, and then to the appropriate Navy 
Component Commander as listed in subparagraph 2a above.  If the component 
commander approves a change to the original award, the component command is 
responsible for reissuing the award elements and updating appropriate records 
and systems in accordance with reference (a).
    b.  Separated or retired personnel, or the Primary Next of Kin of 
deceased Navy personnel, may submit requests for retroactive award of the "C" 
or "R" device directly to DNS-35 along with a copy of the previously approved 
award and other substantiating documentation.

4.  Navy Department Awards Web Service (NDAWS) Processing Procedures.
    a.  The fill-in OPNAV Form 1650/3 has not yet been modified to allow 
selection of the "C" and "R" devices in the Recommended Award dropdown 
(Blocks 20 and 31).  However, all new two-letter award codes have been 
updated in NDAWS.  Until the Form can be updated, originating commands shall 
choose the basic award code on the Form and indicate within the Summary of 
Action narrative which device, if any, is recommended.
    b.  Immediately upon uploading the pending award data to NDAWS, the 
originating command will edit the Recommended Award dropdown within the 
disposition field in NDAWS corresponding to Block 20 with the appropriate 
two-letter award code prior to saving the record. Then, before the form is 
signed and dated, ensure the form's Block 20 is edited to show the correct 
two-letter award code.
    c.  Lower echelon commanders shall type in the appropriate two-letter  
award code on the form in their section of Block 31 and update the 
Recommended Award dropdown within the Endorsements field in NDAWS 
corresponding to Block 31 with the required information.
    d.  The Navy Personnel Master Award File (MAF) has not yet been updated 
with the new device codes.  In the interim there will be no data file 
transfer to update the Navy Standard Integrated Personnel System.
    e.  Once the new codes are added to the OPNAV Form 1650/3 and the MAF, 
DNS-35 will conduct a system data pull and take appropriate action to amend 
the administrative records.  No action should be required by the individual 
Sailor or by the approving command.

5.  DNS will announce when all updates have been completed and when the "C" 
and "R" devices are available in the supply system.  The devices are 
currently available for purchase directly from commercial medal and ribbon 
vendors.

6.  Commands that do not have access to NDAWS should submit a Standard 
Authorization Access Request (SAAR) Form to DNS-35 at 
cno_awards.fct@navy.mil.

7.  DNS-35 can be contacted at 202-685-1770, DSN 325, or 
cno_award.fct@navy.mil.

8.  Commands needing to submit a classified award nomination for CNO or 
Secretary of the Navy approval must contact the Navy Department Board of 
Decorations and Medals at SECNAV_awards@navy.mil or 202-685-6378 for detailed 
procedures.

9.  Except as modified by references (a) and (b), all other provisions of 
reference (e) remain in effect.  Reference (e) will be updated with the next 
release.

10.  Visit the Navy Awards Website https://awards.navy.mil for additional 
information.

11.  Released by Vice Admiral K. M. Donegan, Director, Navy Staff.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
