UNCLASSIFIED
ROUTINE
R 072057Z AUG 15
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 185/15

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/DNS/AUG//

SUBJ/USS CONSTITUTION CHIEF PETTY OFFICER HERITAGE TRAINING//
POC/CHRISTOPHER WELCH/CMDCM/DNS-C/703-614-2262/CHRISTOPHER.C.WELCH(AT)
NAVY.MIL//
POC/NANCY LOWE/NCC/COORD/703-614-4967/NANCY.LOWE1(AT)NAVY.MIL//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN announces the 2015 USS CONSTITUTION Chief Petty 
Officer (CPO) Heritage Training.  USS CONSTITUTION, located in Boston, 
Massachusetts, will host Fiscal Year 2016 CPO Selectees from 17-21 August and 
24-28 August 2015.

2.  CPO Selectees will work aboard "Old Ironsides" for five days and four 
nights, where they will be immersed in more than 200 years of naval heritage.  
They will learn about the art of sailing, take advantage of this dock period 
to get an up close look at ship construction, handle 19th century guns and 
man her gigs. The training will culminate in a gig race in Boston Harbor 
commemorating the July 1812 chase of the ship by a British squadron.

3.  Due to limited space and operational concerns, only 60 CPO Selectees and 
10 Mentor Chiefs are authorized each week.  Request Fleet and Force Master 
Chiefs provide nominations to the Office of the Chief of Naval Operations 
(OPNAV) Command Master Chief and the CPO Heritage Week's Participation 
Coordinator listed in this message. Mentor nominations are due Not Later Than 
(NLT) 11 August 2015, Reserve CPO Selectee nominations are due NLT 11 August 
2015, and Active CPO Selectee nominations are due 12 August 2015 or as soon 
as practical after release of the selection board results.  All quotas and 
staffing are coordinated through OPNAV; do not contact USS CONSTITUTION 
directly for quotas or billet confirmation.

4.  Attendee costs for this OPNAV authorized, mission essential training 
event are to be borne from attendee unit training funds. Unit Commanding 
Officers shall determine whether CPO's/CPO Selectees assigned to their unit 
should attend, taking into account the availability of unit training funds.

5.  Logistical information such as travel recommendations and uniform 
requirements will be available on USS CONSTITUTION's website located at 
http://www.history.navy.mil/ussconstitution/index.html.

6.  Released by Vice Admiral J. F. Caldwell, Jr., Director, Navy Staff.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
