UNCLASSIFIED//
ROUTINE
R 141628Z AUG 15
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 191/15

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N2N6BC/AUG//

SUBJ/OFFICE OF PERSONNEL MANAGEMENT (OPM) DATA BREACH:  DECKPLATE TRAINING 
FOR NAVY SAILORS//

REF/A/MSG/ALNAV052/15//
REF/B/MSG/ALNAV056/15//
NARR/ REF A IS ALNAV 52/15 OFFICE OF PERSONNEL MANAGEMENT DATA BREACH. REF B 
IS ALNAV 56/15 OFFICE OF PERSONNEL MANAGEMENT DATA BREACH  LIST OF AFFECTED 
PERSONNEL GROWS.//
POC/MS. BROOKE ZIMMERMAN/CIV/OPNAV N2N6BC/WASHINGTON DC/TEL:571-256 
8521/EMAIL:BROOKE.ZIMMERMAN@NAVY.MIL//

    1.  This NAVADMIN points to specific resources to assist in training Navy 
Sailors to respond to the recent Office of Personnel Management (OPM) data 
breach.

    2.  Background:  As detailed in references (a) and (b), OPM has announced 
two breaches of their databases affecting an estimated total of 25.5 million 
current and former federal employees.  This includes active and reserve 
military and civilian personnel.  Exposed personal information includes SSNs, 
residency and educational history, health and medical information, employment 
history, marital status, foreign travels, information about children and 
other relatives as well as personal friends and business acquaintances, 
financial history, criminal and non-criminal court cases, and passport 
information.  Spouses or cohabitants of affected personnel may also be 
impacted. Official notifications to affected personnel will be sent via U.S. 
Postal Service beginning in September and may take months to be completed.

    3.  The Secretary of the Navy has established a portal 
(http://www.secnav.navy.mil/OPMBreachDON/Pages/default.aspx) to consolidate 
the latest information for all Navy personnel.  This site is designed as a 
one-stop shop for information and resources.  It includes a commanders 
toolkit and has been updated to include training materials specifically 
designed for deck-plate training of Sailors on what it means to them.  An 
information trifold card and graphics designed for printing or posting in 
work spaces have also been added.  The portal is updated as new/additional 
information becomes available.

    4.  Your personal information was likely compromised.  Do not wait to 
take steps to protect yourself or your personnel.  Be vigilant about the 
security of your personal information, set up fraud alerts on your accounts, 
be aware of phishing scams, and report all suspected attempts to solicit 
personal and work-related information to your commander, security manager and 
Naval Criminal Investigative Service. 

    5.  Released by VADM Ted N. Branch, Deputy Chief of Naval Operations, 
Information Dominance, OPNAV N2N6.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
