UNCLASSIFIED

ROUTINE

R 271212Z JUL 17

FM CNO WASHINGTON DC

TO NAVADMIN

INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC

BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 180/17

SUBJ/242ND U.S. NAVY BIRTHDAY PLANNING ORDER//

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/DNS/JUL//

REF/A/MSG NAVADMIN 156-16/-/062116ZJUL16//

REF/B/DOC/SECDEF/17NOV2015//

REF/C/DOC/OPNAV/21DEC2012//

REF/D/DOC/DOD/5500.07-R/17NOV2011//

REF/E/DOC/DON/5720.44C/21FEB2012//

REF/F/NAVADMIN/101523ZJAN17//

REF/G/10 U.S.C. 974//

REF/H/PDASD(PA)/05NOV2009//

REF/I/5 C.F.R. PART 2635//

REF/J/DON/4001.2J/12AUG2009//

REF/K/DON/4001.1F/02JUL2010//

REF/L/CNIC/1710.3/14JUN2013//

NARR/REF A IS CNO'S 241TH U.S. NAVY BIRTHDAY PLANNING ORDER.  REF B IS DOD 
PUBLIC AFFAIRS OUTREACH GUIDANCE FOR FISCAL YEARS 2006-2017.
REF C IS OPNAVINST 5726.8A, OUTREACH:  AMERICA'S NAVY.  REF D IS THE DOD 
JOINT ETHICS REGULATION.  REF E IS DON PUBLIC AFFAIRS GUIDANCE.
REF F IS THE FY2017 NAVY COMMUNITY OUTREACH PLAN.  REF G IS TITLE 10, U.S. 
CODE, SEC. 974, GOVERNING USE OF MILITARY MUSICAL UNITS.  REF H IS OSD'S 
INTERIM POLICY GUIDANCE ON SECTION 974 AND USE OF MILITARY MUSICAL UNITS.  
REF I IS TITLE 5, CODE OF FEDERAL REGULATIONS, PART 2635, STANDARDS OF 
ETHICAL CONDUCT FOR EMPLOYEES OF THE EXECUTIVE BRANCH.  REF J IS SECNAVINST 
4001.2J, ACCEPTANCE OF GIFTS.
REF K IS OPNAVINST 4001.1F, ACCEPTANCE OF GIFTS TO THE AGENCY.  REF L IS 
CNICINST 1710.3, OPERATION OF MORALE, WELFARE AND RECREATION PROGRAMS.//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN is a planning order (PLANORD) for events in support of 
the commemoration of the 242nd U.S. Navy Birthday and Heritage Week (242nd 
BDAY).  Coordination and planning is directed to support working group 
planning, operation order
(OPORDER) development and execution of the 242nd BDAY commemorations Navy-
wide.

2.  Situation:
    a.  On 14 October 2017, the Navy will celebrate its 242nd birthday.  The 
central theme of this year's 242nd BDAY and heritage week will be "Sea Power 
to Protect and Promote."  The announcement of this theme now allows planners 
at all echelons to focus talking points, guest speaker, solicitations, etc., 
for this year's commemorations.  On 10 October 2017, the Chief of Naval 
Operations
(CNO) will mark the commencement of a week-long Navy Heritage Celebration in 
Washington, DC culminating with a commemoration at the National Capital 
Region (NCR) Navy Birthday Ball on 14 October 2017.
    b.  The Navy will leverage the 242nd BDAY as an opportunity for enhanced 
public engagement, both at home and where our forces are stationed abroad.  
Per reference (b), the continued development of an overarching strategic 
approach will ensure alignment throughout the Navy Enterprise and provide 
guidance for planning and execution.  The intent is to maximize public 
awareness by conducting local events in areas with a Navy presence.  On a 
broader scale, we will use the 242nd BDAY to tell our Navy's story, 
strengthen our Navy's connection to the American public, and improve the 
American public's appreciation for our Navy's role in our nation's history 
and culture.
    c.  The 242nd BDAY commemorations will include a series of events in 
fleet concentration areas (CONUS and OCONUS) and at local commands throughout 
the Navy concluding by 21 October 2017.  242nd BDAY planning should include a 
range of events coordinated to promote participation by the local populace 
and civic leadership per references (a) through (e).
    d.  Similar to the 241st BDAY effort, this PLANORD directs three phases 
of the 242nd BDAY activities.  Phase I is the planning/program development of 
242nd BDAY (1 June 2017 - 1 September 2017).  This phase encompasses the 
detailed planning required to execute the 242nd BDAY events.  Phase II is the 
execution of the 242nd BDAY (2 September 2017 to 21 October 2017) plan.  This 
will begin upon the release of the 242nd BDAY EXORD by Commander, U.S. Fleet 
Forces Command (COMUSFLTFORCOM).  Phase III is the assessment and plan 
refinement phase of the 242nd BDAY and will occur from 22 October 2017 to 31 
March 2018.
    e.  COMUSFLTFORCOM is the lead for all phases and may provide amplifying 
guidance, to include delegating authority to other Echelon II and below 
commands to lead specific phases or provide support with the exception of 
efforts aligned to support NCR events.  In every case, all events will be 
synchronized with NCR events.  For optimal sequencing, all Navy birthday 
ceremonies (including those associated with Navy birthday balls) should, to 
the maximum extent possible, be planned to execute prior to or the same day 
as the NCR Navy Birthday Ball on 14 October 2017.

3.  Mission:  Navy commands will synchronize their efforts in celebrating the 
U.S. Navy's birthday each year to gain the maximum institutional benefits for 
internal and external audiences.  For the purpose of the effort, 
institutional benefit includes:
    a.  Increased awareness and support for the U.S. Navy.
    b.  Enhanced appreciation of Navy missions, history and heritage for 
Sailors, former Sailors, and their families.
        (1) COMUSFLTFORCOM will develop a strategic plan and direct execution 
Navy-wide.
        (2) Per reference (c) and to the extent feasible, 242nd BDAY events 
should leverage tours of Navy installations, fitness events, U.S. Navy Band 
performances, Navy birthday ceremonies, Navy birthday balls, Navy heritage 
celebrations, and similar events to raise awareness of our Navy birthday, 
history and heritage.  Paragraph 0507 of reference (e) provides guidance 
concerning public engagement events appropriate for commemoration of our 
Navy's birthday.

4.  Execution:
    a.  CNO's intent.
        (1) Purpose.  Synchronize the Navy's efforts in celebrating its 242nd 
BDAY to gain the maximum institutional benefit for internal and external 
audiences.
        (2) Method.  OPNAV and COMUSFLTFORCOM will provide the guidance and 
oversight necessary to align commands on the preparation and execution of 
242nd BDAY.  As part of this effort, best practices developed for the 241st 
BDAY celebration will be refined for use in 242nd BDAY and future 
commemorations.
        (3) End state.
            (a) Enhanced naval heritage and traditions;
            (b) Maximized opportunities for participation in Navy 
commemoration events;
            (c) Increased awareness of, and support for, the Navy by key 
audiences;
            (d) Improved Navy-wide processes and coordination for Navy 
birthday commemorations.
    b.  Initial planning guidance.
        (1) Use the 242nd BDAY as an avenue to share naval history and 
heritage.
        (2) Plan and execute 242nd BDAY in a manner consistent with above 
references and other applicable laws and policy.
        (3) Identify guest speakers/guests of honor early in the planning 
process, with an eye toward maximum institutional benefit.
    c.  Official and unofficial Navy birthday related events:  this PLANORD 
contains express authorization for official Navy birthday commemoration 
ceremonies to be held in connection with unofficial Navy birthday balls and 
similar social events (i.e. in a "two-tiered"
fashion) where feasible and to the extent consistent with law and regulation.  
A "two-tiered" approach may be employed to better leverage official 
engagement opportunities associated with certain unofficial Navy birthday-
related events and allow for more flexibility in unit-level planning of 
official evolutions.
         (1) Official Navy birthday commemoration ceremonies.
Official Navy birthday commemoration ceremonies directly support the mission 
of the U.S. Navy.  They are authorized on a stand-alone basis (e.g. a 
ceremony onboard a Navy installation) as well as when held in conjunction 
with unofficial Navy birthday balls and similar social events.  Official Navy 
birthday ceremonies held in conjunction with unofficial Navy birthday balls 
and similar social events will normally follow a "two-tiered" sequence: Tier 
1 (official Navy birthday commemoration ceremony) followed by Tier 2 
(unofficial Navy birthday ball or similar social event).  Official Navy 
birthday commemoration ceremonies often include (subject to
availability) a Navy color guard, a performance by the Navy Band (for 
ceremonial music only), a presentation or pageant commemorating the Navy's 
birthday and mission, and appropriate guest of honor remarks.  Active unit 
level planning, management, and execution efforts in support of official Navy 
birthday commemoration ceremonies is authorized in a manner consistent with 
mission, resource and legal constraints.  These efforts may include provision 
of the following in support of official ceremony requirements: security, 
transportation of ceremonial participants, ceremony photography, 
informational notifications via official military information channels, 
audio/visual support, and other appropriate logistical support required for 
the official ceremony.  Official Navy birthday commemoration ceremonies are 
to be conducted to in a manner consistent with applicable mission, resource, 
and legal constraints.
          (2) Unofficial Navy birthday balls and similar social functions.  
Though sometimes held in conjunction with an official Navy birthday 
commemoration ceremony, Navy birthday balls and similar social events are 
traditionally organized by groups of Sailors acting in an unofficial capacity 
or other non-federal entities (NFE) chartered to provide support to the 
military and/or its service members.  These events normally involve an 
invited Navy speaker or guest of honor, dinner, musical entertainment, 
dancing, refreshments, and other social activities.  Navy birthday balls are 
normally supported through NFE organized ticket sales to attendees, though 
they may also be supported by appropriate NFE fundraising activities, and 
non-appropriated funds (NAF), if available and authorized by law and policy.  
While Navy birthday balls involve celebrations of the Navy's birthday, 
history and heritage, they are not official Navy events.
Given that Navy birthday balls and similar social events involve celebrations 
of the Navy's mission and heritage and are normally attended by a broad cross 
section of active duty and civilian Navy personnel and their families as-
well-as members of local Navy host communities, they often afford important 
Navy engagement opportunities.  Therefore, the Navy may provide limited 
logistical support to unofficial Navy birthday balls (e.g., to include 
official speakers and notifications to military personnel through military 
information channels) as consistent with reference (d).
         (3) Resource and funding constraints.  It is important that 
participation of Navy personnel and use of Navy resources in support of Navy 
birthday-related events receive appropriate prior review to determine the 
nature of the Navy birthday related event (e.g., official or unofficial) and 
to further ensure that any use of official time and appropriated and/or non-
appropriated funds employed in support are consistent with fiscal and 
standards of conduct requirements.  Review by servicing legal counsel of 
unit-level evolution planning and execution is advised.  Appropriated funds 
are generally unavailable for unofficial events and may not be used for 
feeding and entertainment of Navy and/or other persons absent express 
statutory authority.  Any fundraising and other similar activities must 
comply with references (d) and (i).  Gift acceptance by Navy personnel must 
also comply with references (d) and (i) or (j) and (k) as applicable.  
Reference (l) contains policy on MWR support to Navy birthday celebrations, 
to include authorization of limited MWR NAF via Navy region and installation 
commanders in certain cases.  See paragraph 5 below for additional funding 
guidance.
         (4) Maximum use of the Navy lessons learned information system 
(NLLIS) to capture best practices and lessons learned for events surrounding 
the 242nd BDAY is directed.
         (5) Further develop measures of effectiveness and performance (MOES 
and MOPS) for activities associated with the 242nd BDAY, building on efforts 
from the 241st BDAY.

    d.  Tasking.
        (1) COMUSFLTFORCOM assign appropriate representation to support 
Phases I through III.  Provide initial, mid, and final planning reviews as 
well as a detailed after action report to DNS following 242nd BDAY.
        (2) COMUSFLTFORCOM develop and release 242nd Navy birthday 
communication plan to ashore and afloat commands.

5.  Funding.  Per reference (b), funding of outreach events should come from 
within existing programmed and budgeted resources and must be consistent with 
applicable law and policy.  Individual commands are responsible for funding 
all costs and ensuring judiciousness in the use of appropriated funds.  
Reference (f) provides additional community outreach guidance and funding 
limitations for fiscal year 2017.

6.  Command relationships.
    a.  COMUSFLTFORCOM is the supported command.
    b.  CNIC, COMNAVRESFORCOM, CHINFO, and NAVHISTHERITAGECOM are supporting 
commanders.

7.  Released by VADM J. G. FOGGO, Director, Navy Staff.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
