UNCLASSIFIED//

ROUTINE

R 051837Z AUG 15

FM CNO WASHINGTON DC

TO NAVADMIN

INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC

BT
UNCLAS
NAVADMIN 183/15

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N2N6BC/JUL//

SUBJ/CYBERSECURITY IMPLEMENTATION PLAN//

REF/A/MSG/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N2N6BC/311732ZOCT13//

REF/B/MSG/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N2N6BC/201511ZDEC13//

REF/C/MSG/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N2N6BC/061724ZNOV14//

REF/D/MSG/USCYBERCOM/061534ZJUL15//

REF/E/MSG/USCYBERCOM/180435ZJUL15//

REF/F/MSG/COMFLTCYBERCOM/082247ZJUL15//

NARR/ REF A IS NAVADMIN 285/13 IMMEDIATE PUBLIC KEY ENFORCEMENT ON NAVY 
ASHORE SECRET INTERNET PROTOCOL ROUTER NETWORK.  REF B IS NAVADMIN 322/13 
MANDATORY AFLOAT ISSUANCE OF SIPRNET TOKENS.  REF C IS NAVADMIN 256/14 PUBLIC 
KEY ENFORCEMENT FOR ACCESS TO U.S. NAVY WEBSITES AND ASHORE APPLICATIONS ON 
SIPRNET.  REF D IS USCYBERCOM TASKORD 15-0102 IMPLEMENTATION AND REPORTING OF 
DOD PUBLIC KEY INFRASTRUCTURE (PKI) SYSTEM ADMINISTRATOR AND PRIVILEGED USER 
AUTHENTICATION.  REF E IS FRAGORD 01 TO REF A.  REF F IS FLEET CYBER COMMAND 
TASK ORDER 15-030 IMPLEMENTATION AND REPORTING OF DOD PUBLIC KEY 
INFRASTRUCTURE (PKI) SYSTEM ADMINISTRATOR AND PRIVILEDGED USER 
AUTHENTICATION.// POC/MS. BROOKE ZIMMERMAN/CIV/OPNAV N2N6BC/WASHINGTON 
DC/TEL:  571-256-8521/EMAIL:  BROOKE.ZIMMERMAN(AT)NAVY.MIL//

RMKS/1.  In order to address core vulnerabilities exploited in recent cyber 
incidents, the Department of Defense (DoD) Chief Information Officer in 
conjunction with U.S. Cyber Command had directed Navy to accelerate actions 
in the DoD Cyber Security Campaign for all DoD Information Systems including 
DoD Programs, Special Access Programs (SAPs), Strategic, Tactical, and 
Research Development Test & Evaluation (RDT&E) systems.  Compliance with the 
following is to be reported in Defense Cyber Scope (DCS).  Implementation 
guidance has been promulgated via a Fleet Cyber Command Tasking Order.
a.  No later than 31 August 2015, change all system administrator and 
privileged user accounts to use DoD PKI credentials on smart cards (where the 
capability is embedded in the system) on systems that can be used to remotely 
access other devices.  If specific information technologies (e.g. Unix, 
Linux, etc.) do not support DoD PKI authentication for these privileged 
users, the use of alternate two factor authentication technologies is 
authorized.  When reporting compliance, also report the alternate two factor 
technology employed and rationale.
b.  If PKI authentication or alternate two factor authentication cannot be 
implemented within the 30 day window, system owners must submit a waiver 
request NLT 15 August 2015 endorsed by the first Flag Officer in the chain of 
command. The request must include a Plan of Actions and Milestones (POA&Ms) 
and must be submitted to DDCIO(N) IAW REF A and using the PKI waiver template 
and process found in REF F and posted at:  
https://infosec.navy.mil/PKI/pkipolicy.jsp.  In the event that a PKI waiver 
already exists, no resubmission is necessary for the system.  Adherence to 
this requirement will be self-reported by each command and will be audited 
via Command Cyber Readiness Inspections (CCRI), Vulnerability Remediation 
Asset Manager (VRAM), and automated scans.

2.  This NAVADMIN will remain in effect until cancelled or superseded.

3.  Released by VADM Ted N. Branch, Deputy Chief of Naval Operations, 
Information Dominance, OPNAV N2/N6.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
