UNCLASSIFIED
ROUTINE
R 131808Z JUL 15
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC
BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 162/15

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/JUL//

SUBJ/SEXUAL ASSAULT INCIDENT RESPONSE OVERSIGHT (8-DAY) REPORT//

REF/A/MSG/CNO WASHINGTON DC/201953ZJAN15//
REF/B/DOC/DOD/30SEP14//
REF/C/DOC/DOD/25JAN13//
REF/D/DOC/DOD/28MAR13//
REF/E/DOC/OPNAV/29DEC06//
REF/F/DOC/DOD/13FEB15//
REF/G/DOC/OPNAV/25APR08//
REF/H/DOC/DOD/21AUG07//
REF/I/MSG/CNO WASHINGTON DC/072310ZSEP12//
REF/J/DOC/OPNAV/22DEC09/NOTAL//
NARR/REF A IS NAVADMIN 014/15, SEXUAL ASSAULT INCIDENT RESPONSE OVERSIGHT (8-
DAY) REPORT.  REF B IS DIRECTIVE-TYPE MEMORANDUM 14-007(SEXUAL ASSAULT 
INCIDENT RESPONSE OVERSIGHT (SAIRO) REPORT).  REF C IS DODINST 5505.18, 
INVESTIGATION OF ADULT SEXUAL ASSAULT IN THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE.  REF D IS 
DODINST 6495.02, SEXUAL ASSAULT
PREVENTION AND RESPONSE (SAPR) PROGRAM PROCEDURES.  REF E IS
OPNAVINST 1752.1B, SEXUAL ASSAULT VICTIM INTERVENTION (SAVI)
PROGRAM.  REF F IS DODINST 6400.01, FAMILY ADVOCACY PROGRAM (FAP).
REF G IS OPNAVINST 1752.2B, FAMILY ADVOCACY PROGRAM (FAP).  REF H IS
DODINST 6400.06, DOMESTIC ABUSE INVOLVING DOD MILITARY AND CERTAIN
AFFILIATED PERSONNEL.  REF I IS NAVADMIN 272/12, OPNAVINST 3100.6J
URGENT CHANGE 3.  REF J IS OPNAVINST F3100.6J CH-2, SPECIAL INCIDENT
REPORTING (OPREP-3 PINNACLE, OPREP-3 NAVY BLUE AND OPREP-3 NAVY UNIT
SITREP) PROCEDURES//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN supersedes reference (a) in its entirety.
Effective immediately, commanding officers (COs) will submit a
Sexual Assault Incident Response Oversight (SAIRO) (8-day) Report,
(OPNAV Form 1752/2).  A fillable form can be located online at
https://navalforms.documentservices.dla.mil/formsDir/
_OPNAV_1752_2_13941.pdf.

2.  Submarines at-sea are the only exception to this rule.  The
previous situation report (SITREP) format of the SAIRO (8-day)
Report may be submitted if limited bandwidth and classification
issues prevent use of the fillable form.  This is considered an
emergency work-around due to limited bandwidth and will ensure
compliance with the eight day requirement for submission.  In this
case, the OPNAV Form 1752/2 fillable form is also required to be
submitted when bandwidth permits.

3.  Per reference (b), the SAIRO (8-day) Report is a one-time report
required to be submitted within eight calendar days following a
command becoming aware of a sexual assault.  Command awareness is
typically comprised of (but not limited to) any of the following:
    a.  An unrestricted report made to a sexual assault response
coordinator (SARC), deployed resiliency counselor, sexual assault
prevention and response victim advocate (SAPR VA), or unit SAPR VA
via a Victim Reporting Preference Statement (DD Form 2910).  The
SARC will contact the victims CO within 24 hours or 48 hours if
there are extenuating circumstances in deployed environments with
limited connectivity.
    b.  The victim elects to convert a previously filed restricted
report to an unrestricted report via DD Form 2910.
    c.  The Military Criminal Investigative Organization (MCIO)
notifies the CO that an independent investigation has been initiated
by the MCIO per reference (c).

4.  The SAIRO (8-day) Report is required when a command becomes
aware of an adult sexual assault as defined by references (d) and
(e), involving a service member victim or a service member alleged
offender (including reserve component members who were performing
active service or inactive duty training during the time of the
assault) per reference (b).  An OPNAV Form 1752/2 is not prepared
for sexual assaults involving family advocacy program cases,
consistent with references (f) through (h).

5.  An individual OPNAV Form 1752/2 is required for each victim
involved, regardless of affiliation, status, or location of the
victim or alleged offender.  The OPNAV Form 1752/2 is required for
all unrestricted reports of sexual assault, including incidents
(being reported at the present time) that occurred before the
enlistment or commissioning of the service member victim, with the
understanding that some alleged offender information may not be
accessible or available.

6.  Without disclosing protected communications and victim
confidentiality, the SAIRO (8-day) Report will be prepared and
submitted by the CO with input from the SARC and the MCIO (e.g.,
Naval Criminal Investigative Service) in accordance with (IAW)
reference (b).  For a SAIRO (8-day) Report triggered by an
unrestricted report of sexual assault, the SARC will be responsible
for providing all victim information and the MCIO will provide the
incident data and investigation information.  For a SAIRO (8-day)
Report triggered by an independent MCIO investigation, the MCIO will
be responsible for providing the available information.  Incident
data shall not be acquired through command-directed investigations
which are prohibited for sexual assaults IAW references (b) through
(e), or victim or alleged offender queries.  At a minimum, the CO
preparing the OPNAV Form 1752/2 will provide preliminary information
of the incident with the understanding that some victim or alleged
offender information may not be accessible or available.

7.  Reporting Responsibility.  As listed below, the following will
be responsible for submitting the OPNAV Form 1752/2:
    a.  The CO of the victim and alleged offender if the victim and
alleged offender are assigned to the same command.
    b.   The CO of the victim if the victim and the alleged offender
are assigned to different commands.
    c.  The first O-6 or above immediate superior in command (ISIC)
in the chain of command if the CO is the alleged offender.
    d.  The CO of the victim involving a service member victim and a
non-service member alleged offender.
    e.  The CO of the alleged service member offender involving a
civilian victim will prepare and submit a OPNAV Form 1752/2
containing available information.

8.  Notification requirements.  The OPNAV Form 1752/2 Report will
have limited distribution to ensure control of sensitive
information.  The OPNAV Form 1752/2 will be transmitted to the below
listed individuals:
    a.  The installation CO, if such incidents occurred on or in the
vicinity of a military installation.
    b.  The chain of command of the victim and/or alleged offender,
up to and including the first Flag Officer.
    c.  The ISIC of the service member alleged offender if the
alleged offender is a CO or Flag Officer.

9.  This NAVADMIN does not supersede the requirement for first Flag
Officer reports per reference (i) or OPREP-3 Navy Blue or OPREP-3
Navy Unit SITREPs required by references (e) and (j).  The OPNAV
Form 1752/2 Report will not delay immediate reporting to the
appropriate SARC and MCIO.

10.  Point of contact is LCDR Steven Smiraldo, OPNAV N172, telephone
(703)604-1204/DSN 664 or via e-mail at steven.smiraldo(at)navy.mil

11.  This NAVADMIN will remain in effect until superseded or
canceled, whichever occurs first.

12.  Released by Vice Admiral W. F. Moran, N1.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
