RTTUZYUW RHOIAAA0001 1711429-UUUU--RHSSSUU
ZNR UUUUU
R 201423Z JUN 14 PSN 883336K31
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
BT
UNCLAS
NAVADIN 141/14

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/JUN//

SUBJ/FY-16 NAVY RESERVE LIMITED DUTY OFFICER AND CHIEF WARRANT
OFFICER IN-SERVICE PROCUREMENT PROGRAM BOARD//

REF/A/DOC/OPNAV/14DEC09//
REF/B/DOC/OPNAV/24DEC05//
REF/C/MSG/CNO WASHINGTON DC/171307ZSEP12//
REF/D/MSG/CNO WASHINGTON DC/131544ZDEC07//
REF/E/MSG/CNO WASHINGTON DC/091410ZFEB00//
NARR/REF A IS OPNAVINST 1420.1B, ENLISTED TO OFFICER COMMISSIONING
PROGRAMS APPLICATION ADMINISTRATIVE MANUAL.  REF B IS OPNAVINST
1120.12, APPOINTMENT OF LIMITED DUTY OFFICERS (LDO) AND CHIEF WARRANT
OFFICERS (CWO) FOR INACTIVE DUTY IN THE NAVY RESERVE.  REF C IS
NAVADMIN 281/12, ADVANCED CHANGE NOTICE TO OPNAVINST 1420.1B,
CHAPTER SEVEN, LIMITED DUTY OFFICER AND CHIEF WARRANT OFFICER
APPLICATION INSTRUCTION AND POLICY.  REF D IS NAVADMIN 336/07,
ADMINISTRATION OF THE NAVY-WIDE ADVANCEMENT EXAM FOR SAILORS IN
IRAQ, AFGHANISTAN, AND THE HORN OF AFRICA.  REF E IS NAVADMIN
018/00, SPECIAL DUTY ASSIGNMENT PAY.//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN announces the solicitation of applications
from highly qualified and motivated E6 through E9 personnel for the
FY-16 Navy reserve limited duty officer (LDO) and chief warrant
officer (CWO) programs.  LDOs and CWOs bring a variety of experience
and unique perspectives into the wardroom from their enlisted
service.  The LDO/CWO career paths provide additional leadership
opportunities and enhance a Sailor*s ability to contribute to the
Navy reserve.  These programs deliver to the officer corps seasoned
professionals with proven leadership abilities at an economical
cost.  LDOs provide broad technical management and leadership
skills, and CWOs provide specific technical expertise and leadership
skills in support of the unrestricted line, restricted line, and
staff corps communities.  LDOs and CWOs serve in a variety of
leadership billets within their technical fields, ranging from
division officers to commanding officers.

2.  Eligible Sailors are encouraged to apply for the designators for
which they are most qualified, regardless of current rating.  Refer
to references (a) through (c) for eligibility criteria and
application format.  For the most current information regarding
application procedures, and board membership applications, visit the
LDO/CWO webpage at http://www.public.navy.mil/bupers-npc/officer/
communitymanagers/ ldo_cwo/pages/references.aspx.

3.  The FY-16 Inactive Duty Navy Reserve LDO/CWO In-service
Procurement Board will convene at a date to be determined in January
2015.  For the most current board dates, visit Navy Personnel
Command (NPC) board webpage at http://www.public.navy.mil/bupers-npc
/boards/selectionboardsupport/pages/default2.aspx and select *FY-16
board schedule* when available.  Applications must be postmarked
NLT 1 October 2014.  Routine addendums to applications, excluding
evaluations and awards, must be received NLT 1 December 2014.
Evaluations and awards must be received NLT the day prior to the
board convening.  Communication to the board must originate from the
individual member.  Information received that is not under the
applicant*s cover letter (e.g., third party correspondence) or not
received by the NPC customer service center (CSC) by the established
deadline will not be presented to the board.  The time and date
received in the NPC Central Standard Time inbox is the time and date
used for deadline verification.  Although a late letter to the board
may be accepted by the NPC CSC, it will not be presented to the
board.  All applications/addendums must have member*s full social
security number on each page.  Applications must be mailed to NPC
CSC.  Time sensitive submissions may be submitted electronically to
cscselboard(at)navy.mil.  Electronic submissions must be sent using
military e-mail accounts and be encrypted.  Hard copy and electronic
submissions must include command endorsement.  The application
mailing address is:
    a.  Navy Personnel Command Customer Service Center
        President FY-16 Navy Reserve Limited
        Duty Officer and Chief Warrant Officer In-service
        Procurement Program Board #315
        5720 Integrity Drive
        Millington TN 38055
    b.  Express mail:
        Navy Personnel Command Customer Service Center
        President FY-16 Navy Reserve Limited
        Duty Officer and Chief Warrant Officer In-service
        Procurement Program Board #315
        5640 Ticonderoga Loop Bldg 768 RM E302
        Millington TN 38055

4.  Interview appraisal boards shall be constructed and approved by
the commanding officer(CO)/officer-in*charge(OIC) and consist of a
minimum of three naval officers (LDO/CWO, if available).  Every
effort shall be used to ensure at least one board member is from the
designator for which the applicant is applying (including but not
limited to teleconference, video teleconference, defense connect
online, etc.).  Minimum grade requirements for board members are
lieutenant junior grade or CWO2 with two year*s time-in-grade.  A
minimum of three (maximum of five) interview appraisals must be
submitted for each applicant.  The *Potential* block on interview
appraisals must be marked for LDO/CWO candidates.  Only the current
version of the interviewer*s appraisal sheet (NAVCRUIT 1131/5
Rev 02-2014) will be accepted.

5.  For applicants who have or are currently serving in individual
augmentee/global support assignments (IA/GSA), include these tours
in the assignment history section of the application.  COs/OICs
recommendation must include validation of any listed IA/GSA
assignment and the statement in ref (c), paragraph 3.

6.  Applicants currently serving in IA/GSA may have their
application endorsed by their field commander.  All applications
endorsed by field commanders must have parent their command
concurrence.  Sample concurrence letter is located at
http://www.public.navy.mil/bupers-npc/boards/administrative/ldo_cwo/
pages/default.aspx.

7.  Applicants must ensure copies of the most recent periodic
evaluation are included in the application or later addendum for
board review and continuity.  First class petty officers must submit
their 15 November 2014 evaluation via addendum.

8.  Time-in-Service (TIS) for the FY-16 board must be computed to
1 October 2015.  Per references (a) and (b), TIS is synonymous with
years of qualifying service toward a non-regular (reserve)
retirement.

9.  The reserve LDO/CWO board will consider candidates for the
following officer designators:
623X, 626X, 628X, 629X, 633X (Note 1), 641X, 642X, 645X, 649X, 653X,
711X, 712X, 713X, 715X, 716X, 717X, 733X (Note 1), 742X, 744X, and
745X.
Note 1:  Applicants applying for the aviation maintenance tech CWO
program (733X) are also encouraged to apply for the aviation
maintenance LDO program (633X), if eligible.  For up to date
information concerning open designators, visit the community manager
page at http://www.public.navy.mil/bupers-npc/officer/community
managers/reserve/selres/pages/RCLDOCWO.aspx.

11.  Applicants must maintain eligibility throughout the selection
and promotion process.  Applicants that are deemed ineligible after
the submission of applications must be declared ineligible by their
current Commanding Officer.  A sample format is located at
http://www.public.navy.mil/bupers-npc/boards/administrative/ldo_cwo/
pages/default.aspx.

12.  Each applicant and command must ensure that applications are
complete and accurate.  Incomplete applications could result in non-
selection.  Refer to references (a) (chapters 2, 7, and appendix f)
and reference (c) for program overview, eligibility criteria, and
application format.

13.  For the most up-to-date application process, visit the PERS-803
website at http://www.public.navy.mil/bupers-npc/boards/
administrative/ldo_cwo/pages/default.aspx.  This site contains
application assistance and a checklist to print and include in the
application folder.  This site also contains guidance such as CSC
mailing info/receipts check link, how to monitor application status
on BUPERS online after PERS-803 review, and how to reconcile
application errors via addendum if items or corrections are required
for completeness or eligibility.  To check for receipt of
applications and addendums, applicants may call the NPC customer
service center at 1-866-U-ASK-NPC or check the customer service
center online site by logging in at: https://ahdsedstws16.ahf.nmci.
navy.mil/OA_HTML/npc.html.

14.  Beginning FY-16, applicants may submit their joint services
transcript, formerly Sailor-Marine american council on education
registry transcripts, but submission is no longer required or
encouraged.

15.  CO/OICs endorsement, located on page 10 of OPNAV 1420/1 (Rev
01-08), must contain the following statement:  "Applicant meets all
requirements outlined in OPNAVINST 1420.1B, NAVADMIN 281/12,
NAVADMIN JUN/14 (use the NAVADMIN # for this message), and the
physical fitness standards of OPNAVINST 6110.1J."

16.  First Class Petty Officers serving in Iraq, Afghanistan, and
the Horn of Africa that are determined chief petty officer board
eligible in agreement with ref (d) or ref (e) are also eligible for
LDO if all other eligibility requirements are met.

17.  Points of contact:
    a.  For application and eligibility questions, contact PSC
Audrey Dixon, PERS-92, at (901)874-3130/DSN 882 or via e-mail at
audrey.dixon(at)navy.mil.
    b.  General LDO/CWO career path and policy, contact LCDR Ryan
Mudd, Reserve LDO/CWO Officer Community Manager, at (901) 874-3291/
DSN 882, or via e-mail at ryan.mudd(at)navy.mil.

18.  This message will remain in effect until superseded or
canceled, whichever occurs first.

19.  Released by Vice Admiral W. F. Moran, N1.//

BT
#4922
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
