UNCLASSIFIED//
ROUTINE
R 261715Z OCT 15
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC
BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 251/15

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/OCT//

SUBJ/NAVAL POSTGRADUATE SCHOOL DISTANCE LEARNING GRADUATE EDUCATION PROGRAMS 
AVAILABLE FOR ACADEMIC YEAR 2016//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN announces Naval Postgraduate Schools (NPS) defense-
focused masters degrees and graduate certificates to develop quantitative 
skills and competencies, producing graduates with the disciplined analytical 
approach to problem solving that is essential to an effective, dynamic 
defense enterprise.  NPS is dedicated to providing relevant, high quality 
education to empower the next generation of leadership in the DoD.  A variety 
of delivery methods are utilized to expand learning beyond the traditional 
classroom.

2.  NPS distance learning (DL) programs are part-time programs (usually 12 to 
24 months) for mid-grade military officers and DoD civilian leaders who are 
unable to attend NPS residential graduate programs.  Graduate certificates 
are also available to qualified enlisted personnel.  U.S. Navy Reserve 
officers should contact Commander, Naval Reserve Forces Command (N7) in 
regards to program eligibility.  DoD contractor personnel applications will 
be considered for admission on a space-available basis.  Student application 
forms are available at:
http://www.nps.edu/Academics/Admissions/ApplyOnline/ApplyNow.html.

3.  Mission-funded seats are available to eligible active-duty naval officers 
(USN and U.S. Marine Corps (USMC)) at no cost to the service member.  With 
the exception of mission-funded seats, all others must be sponsored by an 
agency, employer, or a command.  USMC officers will apply through the USMC 
distance learning program advertised in the corresponding annual MARADMIN 
message.  Funds can be transferred to NPS using an Authorization, Agreement 
and Certification of Training (SF-182) with a letter of offer or acceptance, 
Military Interdepartmental Purchase Request (DD-448), or an Order for Work 
and Service/Direct Citation (NAVCOMPT 2276-A).

4.  The following DL programs are available for academic year 2016:
    a.  DL masters degree programs consist of two classes per quarter for 
eight quarters.  Check each programs webpage for any prerequisites or 
eligibility requirements for enrollment as they may vary.  Copies of 
transcripts and participation agreements are required to support the 
application process for all degree programs. Curriculum #:
       311 - Systems Engineering:
http://www.nps.edu/Academics/DL/DLPrograms/Programs/degProgs_SE_nonRes.html
       359 - Human Systems Integration:
http://www.nps.edu/Academics/DL/DLPrograms/Programs/degProgs_MHSI.html
       363 - Systems Analysis:
http://www.nps.edu/Academics/DL/DLPrograms/Programs/degProgs_MSA.html
       535 - Underwater Acoustic Systems:
http://www.nps.edu/Academics/DL/DLPrograms/Programs/degProgs_MEA.html
       721 - Systems Engineering Management - PD21
             (for DoD Civilians):
http://www.nps.edu/Academics/DL/DLPrograms/Programs/degProgs_PD21.html
       805 - Executive Master of Business Administration:
http://www.nps.edu/Academics/Schools/GSBPP/Academics/EMBA.html
       807 - Executive Master of Business Administration (for DoD Civilians):
http://www.nps.edu/Academics/Schools/GSBPP/Academics/EMBA.html
       835 - Contract Management (for DoD Civilians):
http://www.nps.edu/Academics/Schools/GSBPP/Academics/MSCM.html
       836 - Program Management (for DoD Civilians):
http://www.nps.edu/Academics/Schools/GSBPP/Academics/MSPM.html 

    b.  NPS offers the following programs that build on Navy Advanced 
Technical Education schools and leverage the academic work in these schools 
and require reduced course work, typically one course per quarter for five to 
eight quarters. 
Curriculum #:
       312- Naval Test Pilot/Systems Engineering
            (Aviation Systems):
http://www.nps.edu/Academics/DL/DLPrograms/Programs/degProgs_312ASE_TPS.html
       571 - Reactors - Mechanical/Electrical Engineering:
http://www.nps.edu/Academics/Schools/GSEAS/Departments/ECE/Handbook/MSESee/NR
Index.html
       572 - Mechanical Engineering for Nuclear Trained Officers:
http://www.nps.edu/Academics/GSEAS/MAE/DL/nuc.asp#program
       613 - Naval Test Pilot/Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering:
http://www.nps.edu/Academics/GSEAS/MAE/DL/tps.asp
    c.  DL graduate certificates consist of a series of four graduate level 
courses delivered over four quarters designed to provide greatly enhanced 
knowledge and skills in specific subject areas.  Check each programs webpage 
for any prerequisites or eligibility requirements for enrollment as they may 
vary.
Curriculum #:
       232  Lead Systems Integrator (LSI):
http://www.nps.edu/Academics/DL/DLPrograms/Programs/cert_lsi.html
       262 - Human Systems Integration:
http://www.nps.edu/Academics/DL/DLPrograms/Programs/cert_hsi.html
       273 - Space Systems:
http://www.nps.edu/Academics/DL/DLPrograms/Programs/cert_SS.html
       274  Anti-Submarine Warfare:
http://www.nps.edu/Academics/DL/DLPrograms/Programs/cert_ASW.html
       281 - Systems Analysis:
http://www.nps.edu/Academics/DL/DLPrograms/Programs/cert_SA.html
       282  Systems Engineering:
http://www.nps.edu/Academics/DL/DLPrograms/Programs/cert_SE.html
       289 - Cost Estimating and Analysis:
http://www.nps.edu/Academics/DL/DLPrograms/Programs/cert_cea.html

5.  All officers who enroll in a NPS DL masters degree will incur a two to 
three year service obligation upon completion/withdrawal, and all who enroll 
in a NPS certificate program will incur a one year service obligation upon 
completion/withdrawal.  Textbooks, education materials, and all similar 
expenses will be borne by the student. Any officer who has previously 
received a Navy funded graduate degree will have to complete a second funded 
degree waiver request.
Program commencement is subject to the availability of funds.

6.  For more information regarding NPS DL programs, visit the NPS homepage at 
http://www.nps.edu/DL/.

7.  Released by VADM W. F. Moran, N1.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
