UNCLASSIFIED//
ROUTINE
R 181433Z NOV 19 MID110000205583U
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC
BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 260/19

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N8/NOV//

SUBJ/NOMINATIONS FOR 2020 SECRETARY OF DEFENSE ROBERT T. MASON DEPOT 
MAINTENANCE EXCELLENCE AWARD (CORRECTED COPY)//

REF/A/DOC/DOD/8APR2019//

NARR/REF A IS THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE (DoD) INSTRUCTION FOR THE SECRETARY 
OF DEFENSE MAINTENANCE AWARD PROGRAM//

RMKS/1.  The annual Robert T. Mason Award for Depot Maintenance Excellence is 
presented to the most outstanding depot-level maintenance program, product 
line or project, which has exemplified responsive, innovative, and 
transformational support to the DoD.  This award is named in recognition of 
Robert T. Mason, the former Assistant Deputy Under Secretary of Defense for 
Maintenance Policy, Programs, and Resources.  Mr. Mason served as a champion 
of organic depot maintenance for three decades, while helping to transform 
organic depot-level maintenance operations.

2.  All major organic depot maintenance activities are eligible to nominate a 
program, workload, team, or product line within their organizations to 
compete for this award.  The 2020 Robert T. Mason Depot Maintenance 
Excellence Award competitive period covers Fiscal Year 2019.  The 2020 award 
will be presented at a formal ceremony on a date to be announced.

3.  Echelon II commanders must review and screen nominations from their 
respective commands, and may submit one nomination package to Office of the 
Chief of Naval Operations (OPNAV) N8 from each major organic depot-level 
facility.  OPNAV N8 will evaluate these nominations and forward Navy 
finalists to the Secretary of Defense for award consideration.

4.  Each Echelon II endorsed nomination package must be submitted in 
accordance with reference (a), via email, to Mr. Daniel Schrader, 
daniel.l.schrader(at)navy.mil.  Please pay special attention to the 
requirements outlined in reference (a) with regards to the eight page 
limitation for nomination packages and the four weighted evaluation factors 
for depot-level units.  It is imperative that nomination packages highlight 
accomplishments of the unit, and support accomplishments with qualifying 
statements of fact.  Each nomination package should include a one paragraph 
executive summary highlighting the extraordinary accomplishments of the unit, 
and include a separate high resolution image file of their unit logo (minimum 
of 300 DPI file).

5.  Echelon II endorsed nomination packages are due no later than 21 February 
2020.  Follow on messages will announce Navy finalists for DoD level 
consideration, and the subsequent winner of the Robert T. Mason Award for 
Depot Maintenance Excellence.

6.  Point of contact for nomination packages is Mr. Daniel Schrader, OPNAV 
N83, at (703) 695-4925, or via e-mail at Daniel.l.schrader(at)navy.mil.

7.  This NAVADMIN will remain in effect until superseded or canceled.

8.  Released by direction Neil W. T. Hogg, SES, Assistant Deputy Chief Of 
Naval Operations, N8B.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//

