UNCLASSIFIED/
ROUTINE
R 051553Z JAN 15
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 005/15

SUBJ/OFFICER APPLICATIONS BEING ACCEPTED BY NAVY FLIGHT DEMONSTRATION 
SQUADRON FOR 2016-2017 SHOW SEASONS//

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/JAN//
REF/A/DOC/CNATRA/8AUG14//
AMPN/REF A IS CNATRAINST 1301.4L, APPLICATION PROCEDURES AND QUALIFICATIONS
FOR OFFICERS OF THE NAVY DEMONSTRATION SQUADRON (BLUE ANGELS)//

RMKS/1.  The United States Navy Flight Demonstration Squadron (NFDS) Blue 
Angels will select:  two F/A-18 Demonstration Pilots (both Navy and Marine 
Corps Pilots are encouraged to apply), one Maintenance Officer for the 2016-
2017 show seasons, one Administrative Officer for the 2016-2017 show seasons 
and one Public Affairs Officer for the 2016-2017 show seasons.

2.  Interested officers should submit applications per reference (a) by 30 
April 2015.  All applicants shall contact their detailer/monitor prior to 
applying to ensure adequate timing to complete a two or three year tour 
without impacting career milestones.  Manpower Management Officer Assignments 
(MMOA) will release a separate MARADMIN that outlines Marine applicant 
eligibility requirements.  Final selections will be made in July 2015.

3.  Qualifications.  Applicants should be career-oriented, active-duty Navy 
and Marine Corps Officers with the following specific qualifications:
    a.  F/A-18 demonstration pilot applicants must be carrier qualified 
tactical jet pilots with approximately 1,250 hours of jet flight time by 30 
September of the year applying, and have completed an operational fleet tour.
    b.  Maintenance Officer applicants must be designated Aviation 
Maintenance Officers (152X/633X/734X) (LCDR/LT/CWO3/4) and be on (or have 
completed) an operational fleet tour.
    c.  Administrative Officer applicants must be qualified LDO/CWO 
Administrative Officers (641X/741X) (LT/LTJG/CWO3/4) and be on (or have 
completed) an operational fleet tour.
    d.  Public Affairs Officer applicants must be designated as Navy or 
Marine Corps Public Affairs Officers (165X or USMC MOS 4302) (LCDR/LT, 
MAJ/CAPT) or post operational tour Naval Flight Officers.

4.  Selectees will be approved by BUPERS/MMOA prior to public notification. 
United States Navy/United States Marine Corps pilots will be required to 
remain on active duty for two years following completion of their assignment 
with the Blue Angels.

5.  Reference (a) delineates application procedures.  All applications 
submitted via mail through 1 March 2015 should be sent to: 

    Commanding Officer
    Navy Flight Demonstration Squadron
    Attn:  LT Ryan Chamberlain
    P.O. Box 760
    Seeley, CA 92273-0760

Applications being submitted from 2 March 2015 through 30 April 2015 should 
be sent to: 

    Commanding Officer
    Navy Flight Demonstration Squadron
    Attn:  LT Ryan Chamberlain
    390 San Carlos Road, Suite A
    Pensacola, FL 32506-5508 

Applications may also be delivered in person beginning 14 March 2015.

6.  For additional information, visit the Blue Angels website at 
www.blueangels.navy.mil or contact the Blue Angels Applicant Officer, LT Ryan 
Chamberlain, in Pensacola, FL at (850) 452-4650/DSN 922, or in El Centro, CA 
(January thru Mid-March) at (760) 339-2509/DSN 645 or via e-mail at 
ryan.chamberlain(at)navy.mil.

7.  This NAVADMIN is canceled for record purposes on 31 August 2015.

8.  Released by Vice Admiral W. F. Moran, N1.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
