UNCLASSIFIED

ROUTINE

R 232114Z MAR 18

FM CNO WASHINGTON DC

TO NAVADMIN

INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC

BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 069/18

MSGID/NAVADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/DNS/MAR//

SUBJ/NAVY ATTENDANCE AT THE 9 - 11 APRIL 2018 NAVY LEAGUE OF THE UNITED 
STATES (NLUS) SEA-AIR-SPACE EXPOSITION//

REF/A/DOC/SECNAVNOTE5050/12MAR18//

REF/B/DOC/DON OGC/13MAR18//

REF/C/DOC/DOD/5500.07-R/17NOV2011//

NARR/REF A IS SECNAVNOTE 5050, CALENDAR YEAR 2018 OVER $100,000 LIST
- CONFERENCES REQUIRING TIER 1 AND 2 APPROVAL.  REF B IS OGC
(ETHICS) MEMO CONCERNING NAVY PARTICIPATION IN THE 2018 SEA-AIR -SPACE 
EXPOSITION.  REF C IS DOD PUBLICATION 5500.07-R JOINT ETHICS REGULATION.//

RMKS/1.  NLUS will hold its annual Sea-Air-Space (SAS) exposition from 9 - 11 
April, 2018 at the Gaylord National Resort and Conference Center, located in 
National Harbor, MD.  SAS provides a platform for the professional 
development of Department of the Navy personnel on the latest developments in 
naval warfare, as well as an opportunity for Navy engagement with 
representatives from a broad cross-section of government, industry, academia, 
and international community.

2.  This year's SAS theme "Learn - Compete - Win" is appropriate in this age 
of growing maritime competition.  The SAS schedule is designed with a focus 
on readiness and innovation, with panels covering topics such as acquisition, 
cyber, logistics, leadership, shipbuilding, and manpower.  SAS will showcase 
leaders from across the the United States Navy, Marine Corps, Coast Guard, 
other governmental agencies and industry.  Additionally, many international 
delegations will be in attendance, including several Heads of Navy (HoN).  A 
full list of speakers and more information on international representation 
can be found at www.seaairspace.org.

3.  Per reference (a), attendance at non-DoD hosted conferences which have 
historically exceeded $100,000 but are under $500,000 require approval by a 
Tier 2 conference approver.  SAS 2018 meets this threshold.  Therefore, any 
attendee requesting the use of government funds must submit their request to 
the first Tier 2 approval authority (or official) in their chain of command 
as per reference (a).  If no cost is incurred by the government (i.e. people 
local to area), no approval is required.  The following restrictions apply:
    a.  Subject to command discretion, attendance is authorized for local 
participants at no cost to the government.
    b.  All personnel desiring to attend SAS in a funded TAD status must have 
received Tier 2 conference attendance approval.
    c.  NLUS has offered free attendance at the below nine events to all 
military and civilian personnel.  Because there is a maximum number of seats 
available, attendees are required to pre-register.
Per reference (b), this free attendance does not constitute a gift for 
purposes of applicable ethics regulations, and therefore may be accepted by 
all military and civilian personnel.
        (1) Opening ceremonies and plenary sessions
        (2) Sea Services luncheon
        (3) Sea-Air-Space luncheon
        (4) Sea-Air-Space reception and banquet
        (5) Congressional breakfast
        (6) Secretary of the Navy luncheon
        (7) International maritime reception
        (8) Shuttle bus transportation to the conference site
        (9) Closing ceremonies
    d.  Additionally, on the first day of SAS there is a Cohen Group 
breakfast that is an "invitation" only event.  If invited, attendees should 
consult with their ethics counselor for assistance in determining whether 
attendance is permissible.
    e.  All Navy participation in SAS 2018 shall be consistent with the Joint 
Ethics regulations found at reference (c).

4.  Registration information is available on the SAS website at 
www.seaairspace.org.  There is no charge to attend the SAS for Navy qualified 
attendees, which include:
    a.  Invited guests of the Navy League
    b.  Active duty and reserve U.S. military
    c.  Retired U.S. Navy personnel
    d.  U.S. federal, state, and local government employees
    e.  NLUS Members

5.  DON Forum for Small Business Innovation Research (SBIR)/Small Business 
Technology Transfer (STTR) Transition (FST).  FST is the Navy's largest small 
business technology showcase.  SAS registrants can enter the FST, but 
registration is encouraged.  Registration and more information are available 
at www.navyfst.com.  Everyone registered for SAS will be able to attend FST.

6.  Within the National Capital Region, transportation to SAS 2018 will be 
available in the Arlington area from the Pentagon, Naval Support Facility, 
Washington Navy Yard, Office of Naval Research, Naval Research Laboratory, 
Joint Base Anacostia-Bolling, Crystal City, Joint Base Andrews, Office of 
Naval Intelligence, and Coast Guard Headquarters.  Transportation will also 
be available from Patuxent River in Maryland, and Dahlgren and Quantico in 
Virginia.  More information and bus schedules are available at 
www.seaairspace.org.

7.  Questions regarding SAS 2018 should be directed to the NLUS at
(703) 312-1596, or visit www.seaairspace.org.

8.  Released by Vice Admiral K. M. Donegan, Director, Navy Staff.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
