UNCLASSIFIED

ROUTINE

R 211342Z SEP 16

FM CNO WASHINGTON DC

TO NAVADMIN

BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 213/16

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N2N6/SEP//

SUBJ/FY-17 GRADUATE SCHOOL OPPORTUNITIES AT MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF 
TECHNOLOGY AND WOODS HOLE OCEANOGRAPHIC INSTITUTION//

REF/A/DOC/OPNAV/31OCT13//

AMPN/OPNAVINST 1520.31C, MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY/WOODS HOLE 
OCEANOGRAPHIC INSTITUTION JOINT MASTER'S DEGREE IN OCEANOGRAPHY PROGRAM 
(CURRICULUM #375).//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN announces eligibility requirements and application 
procedures for the Fiscal Year (FY) 2017 Massachusetts Institute of 
Technology (MIT)/Woods Hole Oceanographic Institute
(WHOI) Joint Master's degree in Oceanography Program.  This program is world 
class and offers deep knowledge of ocean processes, acoustics, and signal 
processing.  Further, it seeks to enhance understanding and application of 
operational oceanography, especially as it pertains to the Undersea Warfare 
warfighting arena.

2.  Four quotas are available for June 2017 program start.  MIT deadline for 
applications is 5 January 2017.  Additional information on the program and 
admission requirements can be obtained online at http://mit.whoi.edu and 
https://gradapply.mit.edu/whoi/apply/login/,
within reference (a), and from the points of contact provided in this 
message.

3.  Eligibility and program requirements for Active Duty Officers in FY-17 
include:
    a.  Warfare-qualified Lieutenant Junior Grade/Lieutenant /Lieutenant 
Commander unrestricted and restricted line officers in designators 1110, 
1120, or 1800.
    b.  United States Naval Academy or Naval Reserve Officers Training Corps 
Midshipman 1st Class who will be commissioned in the spring of 2017.
    c.  Applicants must meet the academic eligibility requirements of 
MIT/WHOI.
    d.  Candidates must be available to report to MIT/WHOI at the beginning 
of June 2017 to start summer refresher coursework.

4.  Selectees are eligible for the 6402P subspecialty code (Operational 
Oceanography) after fully satisfying the educational skill requirements.

5.  Selectees may defer enrollment for up to one year to meet operational and 
detailing requirements.

6.  Submit online application and Graduate Record Examination results 
directly to MIT/WHOI.  For Submarine Warfare and Surface Warfare Officers, 
the associated MIT department is Mechanical Engineering and the field of 
study is Applied Ocean Science and Engineering.  For Oceanography Officers, 
the associated MIT department is Earth, Atmospheric and Planetary Sciences 
and the field of study is Physical Oceanography.  If more than four 
applications are accepted by MIT/WHOI, a Navy selection board will be 
convened to select candidates.

7.  Applicants must contact their detailer for counseling on the career 
impact of participation in the MIT/WHOI master's degree program.  A copy of 
the online MIT application and Commanding Officer and detailer endorsements, 
must be sent electronically to Mr. Curtis Bogetto, N2N6C, by 5 January 2017, 
at the email listed below.  Hard copies will not be accepted.

8.  Overall point of contact is Mr. Curtis Bogetto, OPNAV N2N6C,
(703) 604-6289 or curtis.bogetto(at)navy.mil. For questions regarding MIT 
application, point of contact is Ms. Kris Kipp, Graduate Administrator, 
MIT/WHOI Joint Program, (617) 253-7544 or kipp(at)mit.edu.

9.  This message is cancelled for record purposes on 30 September 2017.

10.  Released by VADM Jan E. Tighe, Deputy Chief of Naval Operations for 
Information Warfare, OPNAV N2N6.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
