UNCLASSIFIED/
ROUTINE
R 181459Z MAY 15
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC
BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 121/15

SUBJ/FY-15 PROCEDURES FOR NAVY RESERVE OFFICERS REQUESTING A CHANGE OF 
DESIGNATOR TO JUDGE ADVOCATE GENERAL’S CORPS//

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/MAY//
REF/A/DOC/COMNAVPERSCOM/22AUG02//
REF/B/DOC/BUPERS/17SEP07//
REF/C/DOC/OPNAV/29DEC05//
REF/D/MSG/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/031556ZJUL14//
NARR/REF A IS MILPERSMAN ARTICLE 1212-010, LATERAL TRANSFER AND CHANGE OF 
DESIGNATOR CODES OF REGULAR AND RESERVE OFFICERS.  REF B IS BUPERSINST 
1001.39F, ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURES FOR NAVY RESERVISTS.  REF C IS OPNAVINST 
1120.11, APPOINTMENT OF REGULAR AND RESERVE OFFICERS IN THE NAVY JUDGE 
ADVOCATE GENERAL*S CORPS.  REF D IS NAVADMIN 153/14, FY-14 PROCEDURES FOR 
NAVY RESERVE OFFICERS REQUESTING A CHANGE OF DESIGNATOR TO JUDGE ADVOCATE 
GENERAL’S CORPS.//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN announces procedures for reserve officers seeking a 
change of designator to Judge Advocate General’s Corps (JAGC).  Career-
motivated reserve officers with the requisite education and professional 
experience are encouraged to submit a request for change of designator to 
JAGC (2505) in accordance with references (a), (b), and this NAVADMIN.  Where 
information differs between this NAVADMIN and references (a) through (c), 
this NAVADMIN takes precedence.

2.  Reserve officer applicants seeking redesignation to JAGC must meet the 
following minimum eligibility requirements:
    a.  Be a graduate of a law school accredited by the American Bar 
Association.
    b.  Be a member in good standing of the bar of a federal court or the 
highest court of a state, U.S. territory, the District of Columbia, or the 
Commonwealth of Puerto Rico.
    c.  Be in the grade of lieutenant commander (LCDR) or below.
    d.  Agree to serve in a selected reserve status for at least three years 
computed from the date of appointment in the JAGC.
    e.  Complete the Naval Justice School 10-week course located in Newport, 
RI within six months of the date of selection for change of designator to 
JAGC.

3.  Officers chosen for redesignation to the reserve JAGC shall be credited 
with one day of service credit for each day of prior service as a 
commissioned officer, performed as a regular or reserve officer in an active 
status in any uniformed service up to a maximum entry grade of LCDR with two 
and one-half years time-in-grade.

4.  Officers seeking redesignation in FY-15 to the reserve JAGC must have 
packages submitted no later than 15 June 2015.  A panel of JAGC 
representatives will review the packages to determine selection based on 
current requirements and needs of the reserve JAGC.  The request should be in 
the format set forth in figure 9-1, chapter 9 of reference (b).  Applicants 
must also include copies of their five most recent fitness reports and a copy 
of their officer summary record and performance summary record.  In addition, 
selected applicants will be required to provide documentation of a law degree 
from an accredited law school and proof of current good standing from their 
licensing authority.

5.  The JAGC reserve community will review applicants for a change of 
designator to JAGC based on the following:
    a.  Completeness and quality of the application.
    b.  Command endorsement.
    c.  Quality of academic and military records.
    d.  Civilian legal experience.
    e.  Breadth of active duty and selected reserve experience.

6.  Prior to designator change, reserve officer community managers will 
review applicants* records to ensure no negative impact to community health 
of releasing community.

7.  Application packages must be submitted to the Navy Personnel Command 
Customer Service Center.  Applicants may submit packages via regular mail, 
FEDEX, UPS, or via e-mail.
    a.  For regular mail, send to:
        Commander, Navy Personnel Command
        (PERS-911C)
        5720 Integrity Drive
        Millington, TN 38055
    b.  For FEDEX or UPS, send to:
        Commander, Navy Personnel Command
        (PERS-911C)
        5640 Ticonderoga Loop
        BLDG 768, Room N101
        Millington, TN 38055
    c.  Send encrypted e-mail submissions to: dennis.armstrong1(at)navy.mil.  
Subject line should read:  JAGC Change of Designator Package.

8.  Points of contact:
    a.  General Reserve JAGC career path and application guidelines, contact 
CDR Timothy Jennings, CNRFC, at (757) 322-5613/DSN 262-5613, or via e-mail at 
timothy.jennings1(at)navy.mil.
    b.  Redesignation policy and information, contact LCDR Steven G. 
Rodriguez, PERS-911 Reserve Officer Status Branch, at (901) 874-4371/DSN 882, 
or via e-mail at steven.g.rodriguez(at)navy.mil

9.  This message supersedes reference (d) and will remain in effect until 
superseded or canceled, whichever occurs first.

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
