UNCLASSIFIED//

ROUTINE

R 311958Z OCT 18

FM CNO WASHINGTON DC

TO NAVADMIN

INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC

BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 267/18

PASS TO OFFICE CODES:
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/OCT//

SUBJ/REVISED SECNAV GUIDANCE FOR ADMINISTRATIVE SEPARATION FOR CONDITIONS NOT 
AMOUNTING TO A DISABILITY//

REF/A/MEMO/ASN(M&RA)/11SEP18//

REF/B/DOC/USD(P&R)/5AUG14//

REF/C/DOC/USD(P&R)/27JAN14//

REF/D/DOC/USD(P&R)/11MAY18//

NARR/REF A IS ASSISTANT SECRETARY OF THE NAVY (MANPOWER AND RESERVE
AFFAIRS) MEMO.  REF B IS DODI 1332.18, DISABILITY EVALUATION SYSTEM (DES).  
REF C IS DODI 1332.14, ENLISTED ADMINISTRATIVE SEPARATIONS.
REF D IS DODI 1332.30, COMMISSIONED OFFICER ADMINISTRATIVE SEPARATIONS.//

RMKS/1.  In line with reference (a), this NAVADMIN announces revised 
administrative separation (ADSEP) guidance for service members with 
conditions that interfere with the performance of duty, but are not 
specifically listed as compensable under the Veterans Affairs Schedule for 
Rating Disabilities (VASRD), also known as Conditions Not Amounting to a 
Disability (CnD).

2.  Effective immediately, service members with conditions that interfere 
with the performance of duty that are specifically listed as compensable 
under the VASRD may be referred to the Disability Evaluation System (DES).  
Service members with conditions that interfere with the performance of duty, 
but are not specifically listed as compensable under the VASRD, may be 
eligible for ADSEP for CnD as outlined in references (b) and (c).  In 
situations where the member has both types of conditions, referral to the DES 
is required in line with reference (b).  See reference (d) for officer 
separations.

3.  CnD is not appropriate, nor should it be pursued when ADSEP is warranted 
on the basis of unsatisfactory performance or misconduct.
Separation of a service member for a condition for which the member has been 
found fit for continued naval service by a physical evaluation board is not 
authorized, unless the ADSEP is approved by the Secretary of Defense.  ADSEP 
processing will not be initiated until the service member is notified in 
writing that the condition does not qualify as a disability.  Prior to 
involuntary separation, the notification procedure in reference (b), 
enclosure (5), section 2, will be used.  Documentation must include evidence 
that the service member is unable to function effectively because of a CnD.

4.  Medical officer recommendations for CnD ADSEP must be endorsed by a 
Bureau of Medicine and Surgery (BUMED) appointed Medical Evaluation Board 
(MEB) Convening Authority (CA) prior to delivery to the cognizant command.  
MEB CAs will provide a separation recommendation to the command within five 
business days for cases not requiring Flag Medical Department Officer review.  
This review will include the appropriate International Statistical 
Classification of Diseases and Related Health Problems (ICD-10) code.

5.  A Flag Medical Department Officer review is required if the member has 
one or more of the following:  Personality Disorder as the basis for CnD 
administrative separation, greater than four years of service, deployed to an 
imminent danger pay area in the last 24 months, or ever completed, or is 
flagged to complete, a Post- Deployment Health Assessment.  MEB CAs will 
forward the separation recommendation to the Commander of Navy Medicine East 
or West for endorsement, as appropriate.  For members of the U.S. Navy 
assigned to a U.S. Marine Corps command, MEB CAs will forward the separation 
recommendation to the Medical Officer/Director of Health Services of the 
Marine Corps.  Cognizant Flag officers shall endorse and make recommendations 
on the MEB CA separation recommendation within five business days of receipt.  
MEB CAs will provide a separation recommendation to the cognizant command 
within a total of 10 business days for cases requiring a Flag Medical 
Department Officer review.

6.  Use guidance below to determine the appropriate Separation Authority 
(SA):
    a.  Commanding Officer, Navy Recruit Training Command serves as SA for 
recruit personnel.  This CnD policy applies to all administrative separation 
actions for conditions not amounting to a disability, including entry level 
separation members who have served less than 180 days.
    b.  For all enlisted cases where members are diagnosed with Post 
Traumatic Stress Disorder or Traumatic Brain Injury, the SA is the Chief of 
Naval Personnel (CHNAVPERS), or higher authority.  For such cases, see 
MILPERSMAN 1910-702, (General Guidance for Separation
Authorities) for guidance regarding required screening for service members.
    c.  The first Flag officer in the chain of command is the SA for all 
enlisted service members who have not been diagnosed with PTSD or TBI.
    d.  For all commissioned officers, the SA is the Secretary of the Navy 
delegated down to the Assistant Secretary of the Navy (Manpower and Reserve 
Affairs).  The Show Cause Authority is the CHNAVPERS.

7.  MILPERSMAN Article 1900-120 (Separation by Reason of Convenience of the 
Government-Medical Conditions Not Amounting to a Disability) will be 
promulgated to reflect requirements outlined in reference (a).  Upon release 
of MILPERSMAN Article 1900-120, MILPERSMAN Article 1910-120 (Separation by 
Reason of Convenience of the Government-Physical or Mental Conditions) and 
MILPERSMAN Article
1910-122 (Separation by Reason of Convenience of the Government- Personality 
Disorder) will be cancelled.

8.  Points of contact (POCs) are Enlisted Performance and Separations, PERS-
832 at PERS832ADSEPS(at)navy.mil, Officer Performance and Separations, PERS-
834 at PERS-834(at)navy.mil, and Reserve Enlisted Status, PERS-913 at PERS-
913_midlant(at)navy.mil, PERS-913_northwest(at)navy.mil, PERS-
913_southeast(at)navy.mil, or PERS-913_southwest@navy.mil.  POCs may be 
reached by phone through the MyNavy Career Center at (833) 330-MNCC.

9.  Released by Vice Admiral R. P. Burke, N1.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//

