UNCLASSIFIED
ROUTINE
R 311454Z DEC 15
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC
BT
UNCLAS
NAVADMIN 301/15

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/DEC//

SUBJ/FY-17 PERMANENT MILITARY PROFESSOR SELECTION BOARD//

REF/A/DOC/OPNAV/16MAY13//
AMPN/REF A IS OPNAVINST 1520.40B, PERMANENT MILITARY PROFESSOR PROGRAM.//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN announces the Permanent Military Professor (PMP) 
Selection Board for officers matriculating in graduate school in August 2017.  
Selection for PMP will be made by an institutional screening board, chaired 
by the Superintendent, United States Naval Academy (USNA), which will select 
from qualified officers who submit completed applications.

2.  Reference (a) provides specific application and eligibility guidance.  
Applications are due to Graduate Education and Training Placement (PERS-440) 
no later than 15 April 2016.  Applications should be sent via encrypted e-
mail to the PERS-440 points of contact listed below.  Alternatively, 
applications may be mailed to: 

    Department of the Navy
    Navy Personnel Command, (PERS-440)
    5720 Integrity Drive
    Millington, TN 38055-4400 

In addition to the eligibility requirements in reference (a), these 
additional restrictions apply:
    a.  Captain and captain selects are not eligible to apply.
    b.  Full-time support officers are eligible to apply for a maximum of one 
indefinite recall board quota.
    c.  Applicants must have completed at least one year at their current 
command by July 2017.  Officers serving in a designated joint billet must 
have completed at least 22 months by July 2017.
    d.  Officers who are committed to a specific community through a 
continuous pay agreement (e.g. Nuclear Officer Incentive Pay, Aviation Career 
Continuation Pay, Surface Warfare Critical Skills Retention Bonus) or a 
similar service agreement must be within one year of completion of the agreed 
upon service obligation by August 2016.  Applicants should review all 
policies governing their specific agreement and contact their respective 
officer community manager (OCM) to verify eligibility for release.

3.  The FY-17 PMP Selection Board may select up to a total of 11 PMPs for 
assignment to USNA from the following 12 fields (Doctor of Philosophy degree 
study location  discipline):
    a.  Civilian institutions (CIVINS)/Naval Postgraduate School (NPS)  
Mechanical Engineering;
    b.  CIVINS  Naval Architecture;
    c.  CIVINS  Ocean Engineering;
    d.  CIVINS  Nuclear Engineering;
    e.  NPS - Mathematics (Operations Research);
    f.  CIVINS/NPS  Computer Science/Information Technology;
    g.  CIVINS/NPS  Electrical and Computer Engineering;
    h.  CIVINS  Language Acquisition (French/Spanish);
    i.  CIVINS/NPS  Applied Mathematics;
    j.  NPS/CIVINS  Cyber Operations (Electrical Engineering/Computer 
Science;
    k.  CIVINS  Economics; and
    l.  NPS/CIVINS  Physics. Reference (a) provides specific guidance 
concerning qualifying CIVINS.

4.  Applicants for disciplines taught at NPS are required to apply to NPS at:
http://www.nps.edu/ACADEMICS/ADMISSIONS/APPLYONLINE/APPLYNOW.HTML no later 
than 15 April 2016.  In addition to the online application, the documentation 
outlined on the above web page must be submitted to the NPS Admissions 
Office.

5.  To ensure an adequate return on the education investment in PMP officers, 
the following year group (YG) eligibility restrictions apply:
    a.  YG-99 and junior for commander (CDR) or CDR select without PhD;
    b.  YG-98 for CDR applicants without a PhD coming directly out of command 
tour of an operational unit by July 2017; and
    c.  YG-95 and junior for CDR or CDR selects with a PhD.

6.  OCMs will determine designators and YGs that are eligible to transfer a 
limited number of officers to the PMP community.  OCMs will review all PMP 
applicants to ensure eligibility guidelines have been met prior to releasing 
the applicant to the board.

7.  The following draft plan of the day/plan of the week note is provided for 
use:  "There is a continued need for warfare qualified Naval Officers to 
serve as long-term officer-instructors at USNA. The PMP community provides 
doctoral degree opportunities for selected CDRs who will serve as instructors 
until their statutory retirement.  The deadline for applications for the FY-
17 PMP Selection Board is 15 April 2016 with officers matriculating into 
graduate school or being assigned as an instructor in August 2017."
 
8.  The PMP points of contact are CDR Charles White, PERS-440, at  
(901) 874-4100/DSN 882, or via e-mail at charles.d.white(at)navy.mil.  
CDR Jon Rowe, PERS-440, at (901) 874-3401/DSN 882 or via e-mail at 
jon.rowe(at)navy.mil.  The PMP Community Manager is CDR Steven Milinkovich, 
BUPERS-314, at (901) 874-4049/DSN 882, or via e-mail at 
steven.milinkovich(at)navy.mil. The NPS point of contact for information 
concerning academic eligibility to pursue a doctoral degree is the Admissions 
Officer at (831) 656-3093/DSN 756 or via e-mail at grad-ed(at)nps.edu (use 
PMP PhD as the subject line).

9.  This NAVADMIN will remain in effect until superseded or cancelled, 
whichever occurs first.

10.  Released by Vice Admiral W. F. Moran, N1.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
