UNCLASSIFIED
ROUTINE
R 301844Z SEP 16
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC
BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 221/16

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/DNS/SEP//

SUBJ/ERRONEOUS CHARGES TO MILITARY/CIVILIAN MEMBERS' CREDIT CARD ACCOUNTS//

RMKS/1.  Military and civilian personnel who used the Navy's Morale, Welfare 
and Recreation (MWR) and Child and Youth Programs (CYP) services in Monterey, 
Calif., and Navy Region locations in Guam, Japan, Korea, and Singapore, 
during the period January through June 2016 may have recently experienced 
duplicate charges on their credit or debit cards.

2. The duplicate charges were a result of synchronization issues associated 
with a recent hardware upgrade that occurred on 24 SEP 2016.  The issue is 
not related to any kind of hacking or intrusion, and there was no release of 
personally identifiable information.

3. Commander, Navy Installations Command (CNIC) has established a page on the 
Navy's MWR website at 
http://www.navymwr.org/resources/Credit_Card_Duplicate_Postings/ to assist 
MWR customers affected by this incident.  Customers can also email 
mwr_creditcard_FAQ.fct@navy.mil or call a 24/7 hotline at 844-697-4357 to 
speak directly to a representative regarding this incident and its impact on 
their affected financial account.

4.  MWR's credit and debit card processor, Bank of America, reversed all the 
duplicate charges on 28 SEPT 2016.  However, it may take up to 7 business 
days for all duplicate charges to be reversed depending on the financial 
institution.  MWR customers are encouraged to check their bank statements 
regularly for updates and to notify Navy MWR if the duplicate charges have 
not been reversed 31 October 2016.

5.  The Navy is in the process of contacting financial institutions with a 
presence on Navy installations and requesting a waiver of any overdraft, late 
charges or other fees charged to the MWR customer as a result of this 
incident.  Currently Navy Federal Credit Union (NFCU) is working to identify 
their impacted members in order to take proactive steps to reverse the 
duplicate transactions and refund any associated fees.  Fees caused by the 
duplicate transaction will be refunded or waived. Any impacted Navy Federal 
member may visit a local branch or call 1-888-842-6328.

6.  The Navy MWR Program will reimburse overdraft, late charges or other fees 
related to this incident that are not waived and charged to an individual's 
bank account or credit card statement.  Customers can visit their local MWR 
office for immediate reimbursement of fees or contact the Navy via the e-mail 
at mwr_creditcard_FAQ.fct@navy.mil or 24/7 hotline at 844-697-4357.

7.  The Navy and Marine Corps Relief Society is available to assist Sailors 
who may encounter a temporary hardship due to this incident. Civilians 
affected can utilize civilian employee assistance programs to seek help 
connecting with agencies that may be able to offer assistance.

8.  The Point of contact for this issue is Mr. Jerry Hieb, CNIC Fleet and 
Family Readiness Programs Director, who can be reached at jerry.hieb@navy.mil 
or 202-433-4544.

9.  Released by Vice Admiral R. L. Thomas, Director, Navy Staff//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
