UNCLASSIFIED//
ROUTINE
R 201601Z AUG 15
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC
BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 190/15

SUBJ/JANUARY 2016 CYCLE 230 ACTIVE AND FULL TIME SUPPORT E7 NAVY-WIDE
ADVANCEMENT EXAMINATION (CORRECTED COPY)//

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/AUG//
REF/A/DOC/BUPERS/2NOV07//
REF/B/MSG/SECNAV WASHINGTON DC/052044ZMAR13//
REF/C/MSG/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/061346ZAUG10//
REF/D/MSG/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/252221ZJUN10//
REF/E/MSG/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/131544ZDEC07//
NARR/REF A IS BUPERSINST 1430.16F, ADVANCEMENT MANUAL FOR ENLISTED PERSONNEL 
OF U.S. NAVY AND U.S. NAVY RESERVE.  REF B IS ALNAV 015/13, PERSONNEL 
SECURITY INVESTIGATION SUBMISSION REQUIREMENTS. REF C IS NAVADMIN 259/10, 
NAVAL SPECIAL WARFARE ALTERNATIVE FINAL MULTIPLE SCORE IMPLEMENTATION IN FY-
11.  REF D IS NAVADMIN 215/10, PERFORMANCE EVALUATION AND ADVANCEMENT 
GUIDANCE FOR INDIVIDUAL AUGMENTEE SAILORS. REF E IS NAVADMIN 336/07, 
ADMINISTRATION OF THE NAVY-WIDE ADVANCEMENT EXAM FOR SAILORS IN IRAQ, 
AFGHANISTAN, AND THE HORN OF AFRICA.//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN provides guidance for administration of the January 
2016 (Cycle 230) E7 Navy-Wide Advancement Examination (NWAE) for active and 
full time support (FTS) Sailors only.  Information pertaining to selection 
board criteria will be promulgated via a future NAVADMIN.

2.  Timeline
    a.  21 January 2016:  Administration of exams for USN (active) and FTS.
    b.  29 February 2016:  Individual augmentation (IA) evaluations used for 
time-in-rate (TIR) waivers must have an ending date by this date.

3.  Eligibility Criteria
    a.  Candidates must meet the basic eligibility requirements outlined in 
chapter 2 of reference (a) prior to 21 January 2016 to be considered as a 
candidate.  Candidates who do not meet the eligibility requirements are 
ineligible for cycle 230 NWAE and shall not be administered an advancement 
examination.
    b.  Terminal eligibility date (TED) for Cycle 230 used to compute the TIR 
is 1 January 2017.  The minimum TIR date must be on or before l January 2014.
    c.  TIR requirements for Early Promote Sailors can be waived for one year 
with CO/OIC approval.
    d.  High year tenure (HYT) date or approved HYT waiver must be effective 
1 September 2016 or later.
    e.  Commissioning Programs.  Candidates who have been selected for Seaman 
to Admiral (STA-21), Medical Enlisted Commissioning Program (MECP) and 
Medical Service Corps (MSC) in-service procurement programs remain eligible 
for advancement consideration. Selection to any other officer commissioning 
program renders candidates ineligible and those examinations must be 
invalidated by their commands.
    f.  Security Clearance.  Candidates in a rating requiring a security 
clearance must have a favorable investigation adjudication issued by the 
Department of Defense Central Adjudication Facility or the commanding 
officers interim clearance must have been granted before 1 January 2016.  
Refer to reference (b) for additional guidance.  Once Sailors have a 
clearance they must maintain that clearance eligibility.  If for any reason a 
clearance is denied or revoked, an exam is not authorized until a new 
clearance is granted. Rates requiring a security clearance are AC, AE, AG, 
AO, ATI, ATO, AWF, AWO, AWR, AWS, AWV, AZ, CTI, CTM, CTN, CTR, CTT, EOD, ET, 
FC, FT, GM, HT, IC, IS, IT, ITS, LN, MA, MC, MN, MT, ND, OS, QM, SB, SO, STG, 
STS, and YN, as well as all nuclear and submarine ratings.
    g.  Branch class (BRCL) and special program indicator (SPI) code: BRCL 32 
with a blank SPI code is an invalid Navy accounting status. Commands should 
take action to have this corrected for Sailors reflecting no SPI code.  
Sailors in this status will be invalidated.
    h.  Canvasser recruiter (CANREC) personnel with BRCL of 32 and a SPI of W 
are ineligible for advancement to E7 and are only authorized to take the NWAE 
for limited duty officer purposes.
    i.  Naval Special Warfare (NSW) personnel.  Per reference (c), the NSW 
alternative final multiple score (AFMS) will be used to determine selection 
board eligibility for Special Warfare Operator (SO) and Special Warfare Boat 
Operator (SB) ratings.
    j.  Candidates must meet special requirements (citizenship, security 
clearance, medical, etc.) for certain ratings as outlined in paragraph 204 of 
reference (a), prior to the regular exam date.
    k.  Evaluations used to compute performance mark average (PMA) must be 
inclusive of period 1 January 2013 - 31 December 2015. For additional 
guidance on computing PMA, refer to chapter 3 of reference (a).  Refer to 
reference (d) for use of concurrent evaluations for specific IA/global 
support assignment (GSA) tours for PMA computation and to establish 
eligibility for early promote TIR waivers.  Only E6 evaluations are to be 
used for PMA computation.  If a service member does not have an evaluation 
during the period specified, prepare a special evaluation with 31 December 
2015 in block 15.

4.  Exam Ordering
    a.  Deploying commands can order exams up to six months prior to the 
scheduled exam date.  Exams required prior to the TIR list opening are 
ordered via message or in the preferred message format via e-mail to 
sfly_N321_exam_order(at)navy.mil following the guidelines in chapter 4 and 
figure 4-1 of reference (a).  Specify in the subject line the order request 
is for early exams.  Ensure a point of contact (POC) is included in the 
message.  Refer to reference (e) for IA Sailors.
    b.  CTI/CTN/CTR sensitive compartmented information (SCI) exam ordering 
dates can be found on the Navy Enlisted Advancement System (NEAS) website at 
https://prod.neas.netc.navy.mil.
        (1) Educational Services Officers (ESO) must verify TIR eligibility 
lists on the NEAS website for initial exam ordering.
        (2) Additional exams are ordered via message or in message format via 
e-mail to sfly_cryptologic.products(at)navy.mil following the guidelines in 
chapter 4 of reference (a).  Commands must include their Department of 
Defense activity address code (DODAAC) account number, POC, and the number of 
exams required.  Commands requesting the forwarding of exams should include 
the forwarding command as an info addressee on the message.  The deadline for 
additional orders is 28 September 2015.  The deadline for substitute SCI exam 
orders is 31 January 2016.
    c.  Exam ordering for non-SCI exams begins 14 September 2015. ESOs must 
verify TIR eligibility lists on the NEAS website during the following time 
periods:
        (1) Initial TIR lists will be open for review and editing until 8 
November 2015.  Initial TIR exam orders will be processed 9 November 2015.
        (2) Eligible candidates that were not added to the initial TIR list 
can be added to a supplemental TIR list.  Additional TIR lists will be 
available 9 November 2015 to 6 December 2015.  The supplemental orders will 
be processed 8 December 2015.
        (3) Additional regular exams required after the TIR list has closed 
will be considered; otherwise, substitute exams will be sent. Exams ordered 
after the TIR list has closed should be ordered via message or in the 
preferred message format via e-mail to sfly_N321_exam_order(at)navy.mil 
following the guidelines in chapter 4 of reference (a).  Ensure a POC is 
included in the message.
        (4) Substitute exams should be kept to a minimum and require 
justification as stipulated in chapter 4 of reference (a).  Naval Education 
and Training Professional Development and Technology Center (NETPDTC) is the 
approval authority for all substitute exams. The Deadline for non-SCI 
substitute examination ordering is 12 February 2016.
    d.  ESO must verify the examination order at the View Previous Exam 
Orders link via NEAS web within 14 days of placing the order.

5.  General Examination Information
    a.  Examination will be administered per chapter 6 of reference (a).  Do 
not administer Cycle 230 examinations prior to 21 January 2016 unless 
specifically authorized by Enlisted Career Administration (PERS-812).
    b.  Refer to reference (e) regarding examination options for Sailors who 
are pending deployment to, or are deployed to and operating in a 
Congressionally designated combat zone.  Commands must submit the command 
letter of transmittal in accordance with reference (a).  The in-theatre 
selection board eligibility waiver is not an automatic process.
    c.  Authorized materials during examination administration, only those 
materials specifically identified and listed in chapter 6 of reference (a), 
this NAVADMIN and the general examination verbatim instructions are 
authorized for use during examination administration.
    d.  Navy Counselor (NC) Recruiter examinations.  Administer Navy Career 
Counselor (Recruiter) (NCCR) examinations to the NCs holding the 2186 Navy 
Enlisted Classification (NEC).  Administer Navy Career Counselor (Counselor) 
(NCCC) examinations to all other NCs.
    e.  Aviation Electronics Technician (AT) examinations. Administer 
Aviation Electronics Technician (Intermediate) (ATI) examinations for 
intermediate maintenance personnel and Aviation Electronics Technician 
(Organizational) (ATO) examinations for organizational maintenance personnel.  
Personnel will continue to be tested via two separate examinations, but will 
be merged together for advancement purposes.
    f.  Air Traffic Controllers (AC) must possess a valid FAA 7220-1 ATCS 
certificate and meet requirements established in NAVMED P-117.
    g.  Nuclear Electronics Technician (ETN), Nuclear Electricians Mate 
(EMN), and Nuclear Machinists Mate (MMN) examinations:
        (1) ETN, EMN, and MMN candidates will take nuclear-specific rating 
examinations.
        (2) Nuclear Surface and Submarine candidates will take the same 
examination.
    h.  The Non-Nuclear Electronic Technicians (ET) rating has separate exams 
for Electronic Technicians (Communications) (ETR), Electronic Technicians 
(Navigation) (ETV) and ET.  The Non-Nuclear Machinists Mate (MM) rating has 
separate exams for Machinists Mate (Engineering) (MME), Machinists Mate 
(Weapons) (MMW), and MM. Administer the appropriate examination in accordance 
with (IAW) applicable NEC:
        (1) ET Examinations:
            ETR - NEC 14BH, 14HH, 14RO, 14TO, 14CM, 14TM, 14EM, 14RM
            ETV - NEC 14NM, 14NO, 14NV, 14SM, 14TK, 14XM, 14NP, 14GM,
            14XO
            NOTE:  ET surface - Administer the ET examination.
        (2) MM examinations:
            MME - NEC 4230, 4231, 4234
            MMW - NEC 4232, 4233, 4235
            NOTE:  MM Surface - Administer MM examinations.
    i.  If an exam is administered in error, the command must request to 
invalidate IAW reference (a), paragraph 610.

6.  Competing Groups.  USN candidates in the following ratings are separated 
into the following competing groups:
    a.  CS, LS, and YN
        GROUP 1 - Submarine
        GROUP 2 - All others
    b.  CTI
        GROUP 1 - Middle East/North Africa
        GROUP 2 - East/Far East
        GROUP 3 - Latin/South America
        GROUP 4 - Eastern Europe
    c.  EMN, ETN, and MMN
        GROUP 1 - Submarine
        GROUP 2 - Surface
    d.  FC
        GROUP 1 - Non-AEGIS
        GROUP 2 - AEGIS
    e.  MU
        GROUP 1 - Premier Band
        GROUP 2 - Fleet Band

7.  Exam administration and answer sheet return
    a.  Refer to the exam verbatim at https://prod.neas.netc.navy.mil for 
exam administration and answer sheet return.  Or visit 
https://www.nko.navy.mil under the Career Management link, select Navy 
Advancement Center/Command Info/Command Advancement Resources.
    b.  ESOs must check the exam tote board on the NEAS website at
https://prod.neas.netc.navy.mil/Public/Toteboard.aspx to ensure answer sheets 
have been received and processed.
    c.  Substitute examinations must be administered within seven days of 
receipt.
    d.  A detailed discrepancy list will be maintained on the NEAS website.  
Refer to reference (a), chapter 7 for guidance on correcting discrepancies.

8.  Examination Results
    a.  Results will be provided online via Bupers On-Line (BOL) to 
authorized command representatives prior to the release of the profile 
sheets.
    b.  Commands must verify their exam status verification report (ESVR) and 
submit a message to Naval Education and Training Professional Development and 
Technology Center (N321), info Eligibility and Promotions Branch (PERS-802), 
requesting invalidation for candidates no longer eligible or no longer 
recommended for advancement.  Withdrawal of advancement must be documented 
per reference (a), paragraph 721.b.
    c.  Individual Sailors may view/download their profile sheet on the Navy 
Knowledge Online (NKO); under the Career Management link, select Navy 
Advancement Center/My Advancement.

9.  Additional information regarding this cycle will be posted on the NEAS 
website.

10.  Points of Contact
     a.  Navy Personnel Command Customer Service Center: 866-U-ASK-NPC or via 
e-mail at uasknpc(at)navy.mil.
     b.  SCI exam questions and orders:  850-473-5874/5867/DSN 753 or via 
e-mail at sfly_cryptologic.products(at)navy.mil.
     c.  Exam orders, records, and discrepancies:  850-473-6148/DSN 753 or 
via e-mail at sfly_N321_exam_order(at)navy.mil, or 
sfly_N321_discrepanc(at)navy.mil.

11.  For further information (exam verbatim, advancement manual, and other 
related documents) visit the NKO website at
https://www.nko.navy.mil; under the Career Management link, select Navy 
Advancement Center/Command Info.

12.  This message will remain in effect until canceled or superseded, 
whichever occurs first.

13.  Released by Vice Admiral W. F. Moran, N1.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
