UNCLASSIFIED//
ROUTINE
R 161430Z SEP 19 MID100003102669U
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC
BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 214/19

PASS TO OFFICE CODES:
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/SEP//

SUBJ/ESTABLISHMENT OF NAVAL SPECIAL WARFARE UNRESTRICTED LINE OFFICER 
ACQUISITION CORPS AND MAJOR PROGRAM MANAGER CAREER PATH//

REF/A/DOC/SECNAV/25MAR19//
REF/B/DOC/DOD/3APR18//
NARR/REF A IS DEPARTMENT OF NAVY (DON) DEFENSE ACQUISITION WORKFORCE 
IMPROVEMENT ACT (DAWIA) OPERATING GUIDE.  
REF B IS DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE (DOD) INSTRUCTION 1300.19, DOD JOINT OFFICER 
MANAGEMENT (JOM) PROGRAM.//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN announces and establishes the Naval Special Warfare 
(NSW) Acquisition Corps (AC) and associated career management plan in order 
to professionalize an Acquisitions (ACQ) career path for NSW officers and 
build a cadre of highly trained and operationally-experienced leaders who can 
uniquely advocate for capabilities, capacity and concepts that will posture 
NSW for success in the future operating environment.  As directed in 
reference (a), the NSW AC will ensure qualified NSW officers meet statutory 
requirements for Major Program Management (MPM) selection while remaining 
competitive for sequential major ACQ command slating.  Development of NSW 
officers to serve in MPM positions requires a minimum of 48 months of 
experience in ACQ coded or related billets and proactive pre and post O-5 
command career management.  NSW AC designated officers need to possess the 
qualifications and experience to skillfully manage the technological 
innovation, development and rapid ACQ and critical life cycle support of NSW 
tactical mobility platforms and advanced weapons systems.

2.  Defense Acquisition Workforce Improvement Act (DAWIA) certification and 
ACQ experience requirements described in reference (a), and selection as a 
NSW AC eligible member are prerequisites for career progression and 
ultimately, selection as a MPM.  Experience requirements result in career 
patterns different from unrestricted line officers who serve exclusively in 
their primary warfare specialties.  The most significant difference is the 
need for NSW AC designated officers to serve in ACQ-related billets (Naval 
Sea Systems Command (NAVSEA) and Special Operations Forces Acquisition, 
Technology and Logistics (SOF ATL)) prior to and following NSW O-5 command or 
O-5 NSW ACQ milestone assignments.

3.  In order to create and maintain a sufficient cadre of NSW AC officers 
qualified to lead major ACQ programs, procedures have been established for 
designating NSW AC eligible officers.  A panel will convene once a year to 
review the records of NSW officers who have requested designation as NSW AC 
eligible.  NSW AC eligible officers will then be assigned to positions and 
enrolled in training that leads to full AC qualification as described in 
reference (a).
Applications for NSW AC eligible selection are required but will not obligate 
officers selected to enter the MPM ACQ career path.

4.  NSW has established Acquisition Work Force (AWF) coded O-5 Milestone 
billets to develop officers to meet statutory requirements for MPM 
eligibility and selection.  The AWF O-5 milestone billets create an 
additional career path, in addition to commander command, to compete for MPM.  
The annual NSW commanding officer and executive officer administrative board 
will select officers to serve in NSW O-5 ACQ milestone assignments.  NSW O-5 
ACQ milestone assignments are designated as critical acquisition positions, 
which require membership in the AC or an approved waiver from Director, 
Acquisition Career Management.  NSW officers who accept orders to NSW O-5 ACQ 
milestone assignments will be eligible to compete for MPM ACQ but will not be 
eligible to compete for NSW URL major command.

5.  NSW officers identified as MPM eligible will be those who have acquired 
sufficient ACQ-related training and experience to position them favorably for 
eventual MPM selection.  As directed in reference (a), designation as MPM 
eligible requires full AC membership based on the following criteria:
    a.  Within 12 months of completing NSW O-5 command or NSW O-5 ACQ 
milestone tour.
    b.  Minimum of 48 months ACQ experience (up to 18 months credit for NSW 
O-5 command may be included).
    c.  DAWIA level II certification in any career field (minimum level I 
Project Management (PM) qualification), with the ability to achieve DAWIA 
level III certification within 24 months in line with reference (a).
    d.  For a comprehensive list of undergraduate education requirements, 
interested members should refer to Table 5-1 of reference (a).
    e.  Graduate level education in a technical, hard science, business or 
acquisition-related field may be credited towards experience.

6.  NSW officers who are selected as NSW AC eligible and do not accept ACQ-
related orders may be considered for future acceptance into the NSW AC 
pipeline.  NSW officers who are selected as NSW AC eligible will be contacted 
prior to negotiating orders to establish a career path necessary to complete 
the following experience and training milestones:
    a.  Experience up to 48 months as a level I integrated product team lead, 
deputy program manager or equivalent service in a program management office 
for up to a total of 48 months ACQ experience (including up to 18 months 
credit for O-5 command).
    b.  Training as required in order to achieve DAWIA level III PM 
certification.

7.  NSW AC qualified officers are eligible to compete for MPM selection for 
ACQ Major Commands via the annual Surface Major Command and Major Program 
Manager Screening Board.  NSW AC officers who formally request via letter and 
compete for MPM command will not be eligible to compete for NSW URL major 
operational command.  NSW officers selected will be designated via an 
additional qualification designator.  In line with reference (b), Joint 
Qualified Officer (JQO) requirements for appointment to O-7 may be waived in 
line with science and technology waiver policy for NSW officers not able to 
complete JQO requirements due to ACQ-related experience requirements.

8.  The NSW O-5 ACQ milestone board will be concurrent with the NSW 
commanding officer and executive officer administrative board.  The NSW AC 
eligibility panel is scheduled annually in October.  MPM selection board is 
scheduled annually in November.

9.  Points of contact for this matter are:
     a.  SEAL Officer Community Manager, who can be reached at (703) 604-
5005/DSN 664 or via e-mail at sealeccecm(at)navy.mil.
     b.  NSW Detailer who can be reached at (901) 874-2259/DSN 882.
     c.  NSW AC Manager can be reached at (202) 781-2601/DSN 325.

10.  Released by Vice Admiral John B. Nowell, Jr, N1.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//

