UNCLASSIFIED/

ROUTINE

R 231954Z APR 15

FM CNO WASHINGTON DC

TO NAVADMIN

INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC

BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 094/15

SUBJ/CYBERSAFE PROGRAM INITIAL OPERATIONAL CAPABILITY MESSAGE

REF/A/LTR/IMPLEMENTATION PLANNING MEMO FOR NAVY CYBERSECURITY AND CYBERSAFE 
PROGRAMS/25JUL2014//

NARR/Reference (a) is the 25 July 2014 implementation planning memo for Navy 
Cybersecurity and CYBERSAFE Programs which directed Task Force Cyber 
Awakening (TFCA) to develop a CYBERSAFE Program establishment plan.

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN provides information and guidance on the CYBERSAFE 
Program.  The CYBERSAFE Program and CYBERSAFE Office were declared IOC on 21 
April 2015.  CYBERSAFE Program guidance is provided in the Draft CYBERSAFE 
Program Instruction.

2.  Background.  The Chief of Naval Operations (CNO) directed establishment 
of TFCA in response to compromises within navy networks, low fleet 
cybersecurity inspection scores, and identification of warfighting platform 
cyber vulnerabilities.  TFCA was formed under OPNAV N2N6 and tasked via 
reference (a) to establish an enduring Navy CYBERSAFE Program, with a plan 
for implementation by April 2015.  CYBERSAFE is a vital component of the 
Navy*s comprehensive cybersecurity strategy and will provide maximum 
reasonable assurance of survivability and resiliency of critical warfighting 
information systems and platform information technology control system 
components and processes.  CYBERSAFE implementation was endorsed by the TFCA 
Executive Committee (EXCOM) on 15 April 2015 and approved by the CNO on 21 
April 2015.  Following CNO approval, the CYBERSAFE Office was established 
within TFCA on 22 April 2015.

3.  CYBERSAFE Office.  The CYBERSAFE Office will oversee and coordinate the 
creation of the Navy-wide CYBERSAFE Program.  The CYBERSAFE Office is led by 
the CYBERSAFE Director, who will implement the Navy-wide CYBERSAFE Program 
under the interim guidance contained in the Draft CYBERSAFE Program 
Instruction.  The CYBERSAFE Director will also chair the CYBERSAFE Working 
Group (CSWG).

4.  CYBERSAFE Implementation.  The TFCA COMMANDER will oversee three phases 
to achieve CYBERSAFE Program Full Operating Capability (FOC):
    a.  Phase I (22 April 2015 - 15 August 2015):  Release 100-Day Plan; 
develop CSWG charter; develop reporting mechanism for informing the CYBERSAFE 
Office of incidents affecting CYBERSAFE components; review Field Activity 
(Systems Commands, Program Executive Offices, US Fleet Forces Command, US 
Pacific Fleet, US Fleet Cyber Command, Type Commanders, Military Sealift 
Command, Commander Naval Installations Command, and Warfare Centers of 
Excellence) developed CYBERSAFE Program implementation plans of action and 
milestones (POA&M); conduct a 50-Day IPR with CNO.
    b.  Phase II (15 August 2015 * 01 October 2015):  Align CYBERSAFE Office 
to Post-TFCA cybersecurity governance construct; define relationship between 
Field Activities for developing, reviewing, and implementing cyber readiness 
conditions; establish a method for assessing cyber vulnerabilities and 
establishing risk mitigations specific to CYBERSAFE; develop and approve 
certification audit and functional audit methodologies.
    c.  Phase III (FY 2016 * TBD):  Develop required policies for 
maintenance, overhaul and modernization for continued operation of CYBERSAFE 
components.

5.  Tasking
    a. The CYBERSAFE Director will convene the first meeting of the CSWG on
7 May 2015.
    b.  The CYBERSAFE Office will release a 100-Day Plan no later than 1 May 
2015 outlining required tasks to achieve CYBERSAFE Program FOC.
    c.  Field Activities shall establish CYBERSAFE Programs within their 
scope of authority and provide CYBERSAFE points of contact (POC) to the 
CYBERSAFE Office (CYBERSAFE Director) by 28 April 2015. Existing Command TFCA 
POC will be utilized until an updated POC is provided.
    d.  Field Activities shall provide a POA&M describing their 
organization*s efforts to establish a CYBERSAFE Program to the CYBERSAFE 
(CYBERSAFE Director) by 31 May 2015.  Specific tasking and deliverable 
details SEPCOR.

6.  CYBERSAFE Oversight.  The TFCA EXCOM will continue to provide oversight 
and conduct progress review of the CYBERSAFE Program.

7.  Released by VADM Ted N. Branch, OPNAV N2/N6.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
