UNCLASSIFIED/

ROUTINE

R 161541Z JUN 15

FM CNO WASHINGTON DC

TO NAVADMIN

BT
UNCLAS
NAVADMIN 136/15

SUBJ/CALENDAR YEAR 2014 MARJORIE STERRETT BATTLESHIP AWARD RECIPIENTS//

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N00/JUN//

REF/A/DOC/CNO/30JAN2007//

AMPN/REF A IS OPNAVINST 3590.11F, THE ARLEIGH BURKE FLEET TROPHY/MARJORIE 
STERRETT BATTLESHIP FUND AWARD/USS ARIZONA MEMORIAL TROPHY//

RMKS/1.  The Marjorie Sterrett Battleship fund award was established in 1917 
by the New York Tribune Association.  The fund was initiatied by a letter 
from 13 year old Marjorie Sterrett in February 1916.
Marjorie contributed her weekly allowances of a dime to "help build a 
battleship for Uncle Sam."  Prior to World War II, income from this fund was 
used to pay prizes annually to turret and gun crews making the highest scores 
in torpedo firing.  It is now used to recognize those ships which displayed 
battle efficiency and emphasize readiness and fitness of the ship.

2.  It is an honor to announce the calendar year 2014 Marjorie Sterrett 
Battleship fund award winners for superior performance in battle efficiency 
among aircraft carriers:
    a.  Atlantic fleet:  USS GEORGE H. W. BUSH (CVN 77)
    b.  Pacific fleet:  USS GEORGE WASHINGTON (CVN 73)

3.  Selection for this award reflects the professionalism and dedication of 
these two units.
    a.  USS GEORGE H. W. BUSH (CVN 77) performance during the fleet response 
training plan was superb during every evolution and across all warfare areas.  
The immense pride and sustained excellence of the BUSH crew and the continued 
superior readiness of the ship are unmatched.
    b.  USS GEORGE WASHINGTON (CVN 73) crew performed magnificently during a 
highly successful six month deployment spanning the western pacific ocean.  
GEORGE WASHINGTON set the highest standards of excellence while participating 
in multilateral exercises, providing unparalleled support to Operations 
VALIANT SHIELD, FORAGER FURY, and FRONTIER PATROL.

4.  Congratulations to USS GEORGE H. W. BUSH (CVN 77) and USS GEORGE 
WASHINGTON (CVN 73).  Your unmatched dedication and professionalism exemplify 
the highest ideals and spirit represented by this prestigious award.

5.  Released by Vice Admiral J. F. Caldwell, Jr., Director, Navy Staff.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
