UNCLASSIFIED
ROUTINE
R 011623Z MAR 18
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC
BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 053/18

PASS TO OFFICE CODES:
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//
MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/MAR//

SUBJ/FY-20 OLMSTED SCHOLAR PROGRAM//

REF/A/DOC/OPNAV/8JAN15//
AMPN/REF A IS OPNAVINST 1520.24D, OFFICER SCHOLARSHIP PROGRAM.//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN solicits applications and provides guidance for the 
FY-20 Olmsted Scholar Program.

2.  The Olmsted Scholar Program provides outstanding young military leaders 
an unsurpassed opportunity to achieve fluency in a foreign language, pursue 
graduate study at an overseas university, and acquire an in-depth 
understanding of foreign cultures, thereby further equipping them to serve in 
positions of great responsibility as senior leaders in the United States 
Armed Forces.  Applicants should be available to commence language training 
in summer/fall 2019, begin 2 years of study at a foreign university in 2020, 
and complete in 2022.  A Navy selection board will convene in November
2018 to select up to 12 nominees from which the Olmsted Foundation Board of 
Directors will consider and select Navy scholars in March 2019.

3.  This unique scholarship opportunity supports the Secretary of Defense 
emphasis on developing language skills and regional cultural knowledge across 
the force.  Global affairs require language proficiency/regional expertise 
within the Navy.  Although this scholarship program is open to all regions of 
the world, priority will be given to those whose language choice would fill a 
current or projected critical need of the Navy.

4.  To utilize these scholarship opportunities, the Navy is looking for young 
leaders who display all the qualities of dedicated career officers who aspire 
to command.  In particular, fitness reports must demonstrate strong 
leadership qualities, solid overall performance, and strong promotion 
potential.  Additionally, while a minimum grade point average is not 
specified, all applicants must have demonstrated scholastic ability in their 
undergraduate transcript. Factors such as academic major, participation in 
varsity sports, steady scholastic improvement, class ranking, etc., are taken 
into consideration when reviewing transcripts.  Applicants must also have a 
strong desire to live, study, and travel abroad, as well as learn a foreign 
language.  Finalists may be interviewed by the Olmsted Foundation.

5.  Active duty list regular officers with the designators 111X, 112X, 113X, 
114X, 131X, 132X, 181X, 182X, 183X, and 310X with the following 
qualifications may apply for the program.
    a.  Designators 111x, 112x, 113x, 114x, 181x, 182x, 183x, and 310x must 
have at least 3 years of commissioned service but not more than 11 years of 
total active federal service as of 1 April 2019.
    b.  Designators 131x and 132x will have the opportunity to participate in 
the second year of a 3 year trial program that expands the service 
eligibility requirement from no more than 11 years to no more than 13.5 
years.  Given the compressed career timeline for aviators through department 
head, this trial program is intended to evaluate whether this change would 
enable greater participation during a timeframe that does not jeopardize 
career viability.  For the duration of the trial program, which will last 
through the FY-21 Olmsted cycle, officers with designators 131x and 132x must 
have at least 3 years of commissioned service but not more than 13.5 years of 
total active federal service as of 1 April 2019.
    c.  Superior scholastic ability as demonstrated in an official 
undergraduate transcript.
    d.  Foreign language aptitude as demonstrated on the Defense Language 
Aptitude Battery (DLAB), although language background or proficiency is not 
required.
    e.  Exceptional military professional performance.

6.  Applications should be prepared pursuant to enclosure (3) of reference 
(a).  Detailed information on application requirements is located on the Navy 
College website at: www.navycollege.navy.mil/resources/olmsted.htm.  
Applications should be addressed to:

    Naval Education and Training Professional Development Center
    (NETPDC) Voluntary Education (VOLED)
    Attn:  Code N221B, Officer Special Education Program
    (OSEP)-Olmsted
    6490 Saufley Field Road
    Pensacola, FL 32509-5204

7.  To support submission of DLAB scores, commands may obtain DLAB testing 
information by calling (850) 452-4579/DSN 459, or via e-mail at 
languagetesting(at)navy.mil.  Information on the Graduate Record Examination 
(GRE) may be obtained at www.gre.org.

8.  This is a 3 year program for which career timing is an important 
consideration.  All applicants must contact their detailer for counseling on 
the career impact of participation in the Olmsted Scholar Program.  In order 
to be considered by the Navy selection board, a detailer written/signed 
statement as stated by enclosure (3) of reference (a), must be included in 
the nomination package.

9.  Complete application packages, with command endorsement and detailer 
statement, must reach NETPDC VOLED, (OSEP-Olmsted), no later than 24 August 
2018.  Required DLAB/GRE scores and official college transcripts may be 
submitted by separate correspondence to reach NETPDC (OSEP-Olmsted) no later 
than 7 September 2018.

10.  This prestigious program is key to preparing young officers for future 
leadership roles as the Navy faces the ever-increasing challenges and 
complexities in the international environment of today.  Olmsted Scholars 
achieve fluency in a foreign language, gain a deep appreciation for foreign 
cultures, acquire regional expertise by studying and traveling overseas, and 
may earn a Liberal Arts Masters Degree.  All eligible and interested officers 
are urged to consider this important program and visit the Olmsted Foundation 
website at www.OlmstedFoundation.org for additional details.

11.  Points of contact:
     a.  For program specific and application procedures contact Ms. Elise 
McGuire, NETPDC, at (850) 473-6064/DSN 753, or via e-mail at 
elise.mcguire(at)navy.mil.
     b.  For Olmsted Scholar experience inquires contact CAPT David Sauve, a 
graduate of the Olmsted Scholar Program, via e-mail at 
david.sauve(at)navy.mil.

12.  This message will remain in effect until superseded or canceled, 
whichever occurs first.

13.  Released by Vice Admiral R. P. Burke, N1.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
