UNCLASSIFIED

ROUTINE

R 191749Z DEC 17

FM CNO WASHINGTON DC

TO NAVADMIN

INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC

BT
UNCLAS
PASS TO OFFICE CODES:
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//

NAVADMIN 299/17

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/DEC//

SUBJ/GUIDANCE FOR FY-18 FULL SPEED AHEAD 2.0:  GOT YOUR 6 TRAINING//

REF/A/DOC/SECNAV/27JUN13//

REF/B/MSG/CNO WASHINGTON DC/301606ZJAN17//

REF/C/MSG/CNO WASHINGTON DC/212036ZMAR17//

NARR/REF A IS SECNAVINST 5300.40, DEPARTMENT OF THE NAVY 21ST CENTURY SAILOR 
AND MARINE INITIATIVE.  REF B IS NAVADMIN 018/17, GUIDANCE FOR FULL SPEED 
AHEAD TRAINING.  REF C IS NAVADMIN 066/17, SOCIAL MEDIA CONDUCT.//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN provides guidance for Full Speed Ahead 2.0:
Got Your 6 (FSA 2.0) training, a continuation of our efforts in references 
(a) and (b), and outlines the requirements for completion and documentation.  
FSA 2.0 will be completed by all Active and Reserve Navy personnel in 2018.

2.  Background.  FSA 2.0:  Got Your 6 continues the conversation on key 
themes from our 2017 Full Speed Ahead training and further reinforces 
expectations for appropriate social media conduct as outlined in reference 
(c).  As with its predecessors in FY-15, FY-16 and FY-17, FSA 2.0 blends 
scenario-based videos with small group discussions led by qualified command 
facilitators (CF).  The training will challenge each Sailor to honestly 
assess personal, interpersonal, and social media character and conduct.  This 
assessment allows and encourages Sailors to identify specific opportunities 
for individual and organizational growth and betterment.  FSA 2.0 encourages 
critical thinking, compels respectful and collaborative discussion, promotes 
concept application, inspires adherence to the Navy Core Values, and 
champions a more complete integration of the core attributes and signature 
behaviors of the Navy.  It also supports the enhancement of resilience and 
readiness.

3.  CF Selection and Training.  FSA 2.0 will be delivered by a certified CF 
selected by individual commands.  CFs shall be certified no later than 31 
March 2018.  Those personnel who were certified as CFs for Bystander 
Intervention to the Fleet (BI2F- FY15), Chart the Course (CTC-FY16) or FSA 
(FY-17) are automatically certified to teach FSA 2.0.  No additional or re-
training is required.  Additional CFs may be certified using the FSA 2.0 
distance learning (DL) course outlined below.  Unlike previous years, there 
will be no in-person CF certification training.  There are no specified 
paygrade requirements for CFs, however, CFs should be exemplary and dynamic 
command members who have the ability to actively engage Sailors while 
delivering the FSA 2.0 course materials.
    a.  CF DL Course.  New CFs may be certified using the approved DL course 
on the FSA milsuite site at www.milsuite.mil/book/groups/navy-fsa-20.  The 
FSA 2.0 DL course will be active no later than 31 December 2017.  CF 
certification for those completing the DL course will be documented by the 
FSA Task Force (TF) in the Fleet Training Management Planning System (FLTMPS) 
within 1-2 weeks of course completion as outlined in paragraph 3.b.
The course title NETC-FSA 2.0-CF CERT will appear in the individual member 
training record.
    b.  CF Documentation and Verification.  Commands may run a report of 
their qualified CFs using the NAVADMIN completions report for the course 
title NETC-FSA 2.0-CF-CERT in the FLTMPS.  This completion report will 
reflect all CFs certified in FY-15, FY-16, and FY-17 under the prior courses 
CPPD-BI2F-CF-CERT, NETC-CTC-CF- CERT, or NETC-FSA-CF-CERT, as well as new CFs 
certified in FY18 via FSA 2.0 DL training.

4.  Training Delivery.  FSA 2.0:  Got Your 6 will be delivered as small 
group, face-to-face (F2F) discussions led by a single certified CF.  FSA 
training sessions should normally include no more than 30 personnel in order 
to maximize the advantage of the small group experience.  Additionally, the 
groups should include members of mixed paygrades to encourage open, frank 
dialogue up and down the chain of command.
    a.  Organic Command Units.  Because FSA 2.0 encourages Sailors to take 
responsibility for their contributions to Navy culture and to re-commit to 
themselves and each other (Got Your 6), the course is designed to be 
conducted in organic units within the command structure.  Examples include 
individual workcenters, divisions, watch teams, or departments.  Commanding 
officers shall determine the training groups within their command and may 
establish other groupings based on command demographics or as desired.
    b.  Training Audience.  FSA 2.0:  Got Your 6 training is required for 
uniformed Navy personnel.  Civilians or other service personnel assigned at 
Navy commands are encouraged to attend in accordance with their mission 
requirements and command direction.
    c.  Training Materials.  FSA 2.0:  Got Your 6 training materials (videos, 
Facilitator Guide, and supporting material) are available for download at the 
FSA milsuite site at:
www.milsuite.mil/book/groups/navy-fsa-20.  Commands may also request mailed 
copies of the training materials by contacting the FSA TF at 
netc_fsa_tf(at)navy.mil or via the points of contact below.  FSA 2.0 training 
material will not be modified by subordinate commands and may only be 
delivered by certified CFs.

5.  Documentation.  Commands may document completion of FSA 2.0 training 
using FLTMPS or other local methods.  Use the report group:
FULL SPEED AHEAD 2.0 and course title:  NETC-FSA Full Speed Ahead

2.0 Unit Level Training to record training via the FLTMPS Learning Event 
Completion Form.

6.  Action Required.
    a.  All commands shall deliver FSA 2.0 training to their commands in CF-
led small group sessions using approved training products no later than 30 
September 2018 for Active and Reserve component personnel and document FSA 
2.0 completion as directed in paragraph 5 of this NAVADMIN for all uniformed 
personnel.
    b.  Joint commands shall ensure the Navy element commander executes FSA 
2.0 training for all assigned Navy personnel as directed in this NAVADMIN.

7.  Persistent Engagement.  This is not one and done training.
Behavior change takes practice.  All commands are encouraged to take 
ownership of this training by assessing the learning and understanding of the 
topics discussed by your Sailors and by making this training a part of your 
day-to-day conversations.  The measure of success of this training will be 
the extent to which you engage with your Sailors up and down the chain of 
command, and your Sailors continue the conversation amongst their peers about 
making good decisions, appropriate use of social media, and treating everyone 
with dignity and respect.

8.  Points of contact are CAPT Heath Marcus, FSA TF Chief of Staff, who can 
be reached at (757) 492-5640/DSN 492 or via e-mail at 
heath.marcus(at)navy.mil and LCDR Barry Shumate, FSA TF Deputy Chief of 
Staff, who can be reached at (757) 492-5629/DSN 492 or via e-mail at 
barry.shumate(at)navy.mil.

9.  Released by Vice Admiral R. P. Burke, N1.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
