UNCLASSIFIED//
ROUTINE
R 281943Z JAN 16
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC
BT
UNCLAS
PASS TO OFFICE CODES:
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//

NAVADMIN 020/16

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/JAN//

SUBJ/OFFICER, MAINTENANCE MASTER CHIEF, AND ENLISTED APPLICATIONS BEING 
ACCEPTED BY NAVY FLIGHT DEMONSTRATION SQUADRON (BLUE ANGELS) FOR 2017//

REF/A/DOC/CNATRA/8AUG14//
AMPN/REF A IS CNATRAINST 1301.4L, OFFICER APPLICATION PROCEDURES FOR THE BLUE 
ANGELS//

RMKS/1.  The U.S. Navy (USN) Flight Demonstration Squadron (NFDS) Blue Angels 
will select:  one executive officer, three F/A-18 demonstration pilots (both 
Navy and U.S. Marine Corps (USMC) pilots are encouraged to apply), one Naval 
Aviator or Naval Flight Officer for the NDFS events coordinator for the 2017-
2018 show seasons (both Navy and Marine Corps officers are encouraged to 
apply), one Marine Corps C-130 demonstration pilot for the 2017-2019 show 
seasons, one Naval flight surgeon for the 2017-2018 show seasons, one 
administrative officer and one supply officer for the 2017-2018 show seasons.  
Interested executive officer candidates should submit applications per 
reference (a) no later than 28 February 2016.  All other officers should 
submit applications per reference (a) no later than 30 April 2016.  All 
applicants shall contact their detailer/monitor prior to applying to ensure 
adequate timing to complete a two or three year tour without impacting career 
milestones.  Manpower management officer assignments (MMOA) will release a 
separate MARADMIN that outlines Marine applicant eligibility requirements.  
Final selections will be made in May 2016 for the executive officer and in 
July 2016 for other officer applicants.

2.  Qualifications.  Applicants should be career-oriented, active-duty Navy 
and Marine Corps officers with the following specific qualifications:
    a.  Executive officer applicants must be a Naval Aviator or Naval Flight 
Officer with the rank of commander.  They should have 1,750 flight hours with 
a background in carrier aviation.
    b.  F/A-18 demonstration pilot applicants must be carrier qualified 
tactical jet pilots with approximately 1,250 hours of jet flight time by 30 
September of the year applying, and have completed an operational fleet tour.
    c.  Events coordinator applicants must be a Naval Aviator or Naval Flight 
Officer and must have completed an operational fleet tour.
    d.  Marine C-130 demonstration pilot applicants must have 1,200 hours of 
flight time and hold a plane commander rating in the C-130F/R/T/J model 
aircraft.
    e.  Flight surgeon applicants must be qualified Naval Flight
Surgeons and be on, or have completed, a tour as a Naval Flight Surgeon.
    f.  Administrative officer applicants must be qualified limited duty 
officer/chief warrant officer administrative officers (641X/741X)
(LCDR/LT/LTJG/CWO4/3) and be on, or have completed, an operational fleet 
tour.
    g.  Supply officer applicants must be designated as naval aviation supply 
officers (651x/310x) (LT/CWO3) and be on, or have completed, an operational 
fleet tour.

3.  Selectees will be approved by BUPERS/MMOA prior to public notification. 
USN/USMC pilots will be required to remain on active-duty for two years 
following completion of their assignment with the Blue Angels.

4.  Reference (a) delineates application procedures.  All applications 
submitted via mail through 1 March 2016 should be sent to:
    Commanding Officer
    Navy Flight Demonstration Squadron
    Attn:  LT Matthew Suyderhoud
    P.O. Box 760
    Seeley, CA 92273-0760
Applications being submitted from 2 March 2016 through 30 April 2016 should 
be sent to:
    Commanding Officer
    Navy Flight Demonstration Squadron
    Attn:  LT Matthew Suyderhoud
    390 San Carlos Road, Suite A
    Pensacola, FL 32508-5508
Applications may also be delivered in person beginning 19 March 2016.

5.  For additional information, visit the Blue Angels website at
https://www.blueangels.navy.mil or contact the Blue Angels applicants 
officer, LT Matthew Suyderhoud, in Pensacola, FL at (850)452-4650/DSN 922, or 
in El Centro, CA (January thru Mid-March) at (760)339-2509/DSN 645 or via e-
mail at matthew.suyderhoud(at)navy.mil.

6.  This NAVADMIN also announces requirements and solicits enlisted 
applications.  Applications must be postmarked no later than 1 May 2016.  
Selection results will be available no later than June 2016. Personnel with a 
projected rotation date of September 2016 through April 2017 are eligible, 
but others may apply with command and detailer approval.  Personnel selected 
will normally detach from their present command in August or September 2016 
and report in early September 2016.

7.  There are open E5/E6 billets within the following ratings and pay grades:  
AE, AD, AM, AO, AS, AT, AZ, LS, MC, PR and YN. Additionally, we are accepting 
applications for chief petty officer (CPM) billets in the MMC (8300), ATCS, 
LSC, and YNC rate.  Platform specific experience is not a requirement to 
apply.

8.  Personnel selected for this unique and demanding duty represent the 
hundreds of thousands of Sailors and Marines serving throughout the U.S. and 
abroad.  Applicants must meet the requirements listed below to be considered 
for duty with the Blue Angels (waivers are not normally considered):
    a.  Must not be in receipt of permanent change of station orders before 
final selections are made in June 2016.
    b.  No non-judicial punishment or courts-martial convictions in the last 
36 months.
    c.  No alcohol-related incidents (civil or military) in the last 36 
months; driving under the influence/driving while intoxicated convictions 
within the last five years are disqualifying.
    d.  No financial instability/command directed counseling in the last 36 
months; applicants must be eligible for a government credit card (this is not 
waiverable).
    e.  No physical fitness assessment failures in the last 36 months; 
personnel who have had medical waivers in the last 24 months will be 
considered on a case-by-case basis only.
    f.  Visible tattoos while wearing the enlisted service uniform must be in 
compliance with uniform regulations.  Sleeve style tattoos are prohibited.
    g.  Must possess a valid and current driver's license.
    h.  Re-enlistment approval is not required to submit an application.

9.  Interested candidates meeting the above requirements must first submit a 
fully completed NAVPERS 1306/7 (Enlisted Personnel Action Request) and 
NAVPERS 1306/92 (Special Program Screening Form) per MILPERSMAN 1306-919 to 
their respective rating detailer via their commanding officer.  After 
submission of NAVPERS 1306/7 and NAVPERS 1306/92 to their detailer, 
applicants must submit an application to NFDS using the following criteria 
(ensure all telephone numbers, mailing addresses, and e-mail addresses are 
included):
    a.  Commanding officer signed letter of endorsement on command 
letterhead, which must include:  a statement on military appearance and 
tattoos, an evaluation of the members speaking ability, the members demeanor, 
professional knowledge, and leadership skills.
    b.  Copy of NAVPERS 1306/7
    c.  Original NAVPERS 1306/92
    d.  Include copies of last five evaluations.
    e.  Provide official 5 x 7 inch photograph (front, side, back) in 
enlisted service uniform uncovered (khakis for E7-E9 applicants).
Note:  Common application errors include lack of detailed contact 
information, unsigned NAVPERS 1306/7 and 1306/92, 1306/7 not sent to 
detailer, no commanding officer endorsement, missing evaluations, photos not 
included, packages sent to detailer rather than NFDS and earliest and latest 
transfer dates not filled out in remarks section 1306/7.

10.  Applications can be sent via e-mail to juan.c.nunez(at)navy.mil
or by mail to:
    Commanding Officer
    Navy Flight Demonstration Squadron
    Attn: AMC(AW) Juan Nunez
    390 San Carlos Road Suite A
    Pensacola, FL 32508-5508

11.  Applicants medical record will be reviewed during the application 
process.

12.  Candidates should call NFDS two weeks after mailing their application to 
verify receipt and to schedule an interview.  All personnel currently 
stationed inside the continental U.S., including those who may be deployed, 
but will return prior to final selections, are highly encouraged to interview 
in person, but not required.  Funding for travel is provided by the service 
member or their parent command.  NFDS does not provide funding for 
interviews. Personnel permanently assigned outside the U.S. (including Hawaii 
and Alaska) or while deployed will interview via telephone. Personal 
interviews are conducted at Naval Air Facility El Centro, CA from February to 
March; interviews are conducted at Naval Air Station Pensacola, FL, or any 
show site from mid-March through May. Last week to interview will be 10-14 
May 2016.

13.  Point of contact is AMC(AW) Juan Nunez at (760) 339-2005/DSN 658 (from 
28 January 2016 to 14 March 2016) or at (850) 452-2086/DSN 922 (after 15 
March 2016) or via e-mail at juan.c.nunez(at)navy.mil.
For further information, visit the Blue Angels web site at
https://www.blueangels.navy.mil.

14.  Released by Vice Admiral W. F. Moran, N1.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
