UNCLASSIFIED
ROUTINE
R 292237Z SEP 17
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC
BT
UNCLAS
PASS TO OFFICE CODES:
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//

NAVADMIN 243/17

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/SEP//

SUBJ/VOLUNTARY EDUCATION PROGRAM UPDATES//

REF/A/MSG/ CNO WASHINGTON DC/301201ZSEP16//
REF/B/DOC/NETC/20JAN11//
REF/C/DOC/DOD/7JUL14//
REF/D/DOC/OPNAV/4MAR08//
REF/E/DOC/DOD/3DEC15/NOTAL//
NARR/REF A IS NAVADMIN 219/16, VOLUNTARY EDUCATION/NAVY COLLEGE PROGRAM 
TRANSFORMATION.  
REF B IS NETCINST 1560.3, NAVY VOLUNTARY EDUCATION PROGRAMS.  
REF C IS DODINST 1322.25, VOLUNTARY EDUCATION PROGRAMS.  REF D IS OPNAVINST 
1560.9A, VOLUNTARY EDUCATION (VOLED) FOR NAVY SAILORS.  
REF E IS DOD MEMORANDUM, PARTICIPATION BY EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTIONS IN MORALE, 
WELFARE, AND RECREATION COMMERCIAL SPONSORSHIP AND ADVERTISING PROGRAMS.//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN announces more improvements to the Navy Voluntary 
Education (VOLED)/Navy College Program (NCP) through our transformation 
efforts announced in reference (a).  Effective 1 October 2017, Navy College 
Program for Afloat College Education (NCPACE) Distance Learning (DL) will 
expand to provide Sailors greater opportunity with more academic 
institutions.  To offer this amazing opportunity to our Sailors, this message 
outlines changes to policy and procedures for Sailors listed in reference (b) 
including the requirements to be approved to participate.  This message also 
outlines changes to VOLED support to commands and installations. The most 
current information is available on NCP Mobile App or website, which Sailors 
may access at My Navy Portal at http://my.navy.mil/career-resources.html.

2.  NCPACE Updates.
    a.  With this update, NCPACE will more closely resemble Tuition 
Assistance (TA) by allowing for individual enrollment without the need for a 
command established program, providing greater flexibility to eligible 
Sailors assigned to type two and type four unit identification codes.  NCPACE 
DL self-contained courses will be available at anytime, anywhere, vice 
previously only being available during a command sponsored program.  Sailors 
will now have more control in their pursuit of higher education goals.  
Sailors may enroll using the new NCPACE DL application process available in 
the My Education Application module.  The following policy changes apply:
        (1) All NCPACE DL courses will be funded at the same rate authorized 
for TA courses in line with reference (c).  The current Department of Defense 
(DoD) funding limit for undergraduate and graduate courses is 250 dollars per 
semester hour (SH) or equivalent.  Sailors choosing courses exceeding this 
cap are responsible for the cost difference.
        (2) Sailors can receive funding for up to 16 SH or equivalent, per 
fiscal year (FY), through TA, NCPACE, or any combination thereof.
        (3) NCPACE DL courses will require the same grade attainment as TA, C 
or better for undergraduate courses, and a B or better for graduate courses.  
As directed in reference (c), reimbursement will be required from service 
members not attaining these grades. NCPACE and TA grade point averages will 
be combined.  Sailors must maintain a combined 2.0 or higher grade point 
average or be required to receive additional counseling by a NCP counselor to 
resume NCPACE or TA funding.
        (4) Deploying Sailors are highly encouraged to obtain their course 
materials prior to deploying.  Contractors will no longer deliver NCPACE DL 
course materials.
        (5) Sailors who enroll in NCPACE DL courses which require a proctored 
exam will utilize their command educational services officer or command 
designated representative as the proctor.
    b.  NCPACE Instructor Lead (IL) Program will continue to operate with 
contractor support.  The following changes, effective 1 October 2017, will 
provide commanding officers (CO) more control over ordering and providing 
courses to their Sailors.
        (1) Commands will no longer be restricted to face-to-face support by 
NCP and contract personnel to initiate an NCPACE IL program.  NCPACE command 
coordinators, identified by the command, will utilize resources at the NCPACE 
section of the NCP website to select courses, pre-register Sailors and order 
courses.
        (2) Services such as crew briefs and NCPACE command coordinator 
training will be provided in automated tools available on the NCP website 
under the NCPACE tab.

3.  Course Funding Requirements.
    a.  First-time TA or NCPACE users must complete prerequisite training 
listed on the NCP website prior to funding approval.  These requirements 
supersede requirements published in reference (a).
    b.  For each level of educational or academic pursuit (certificate, 
associate, bachelor, or master) funded by TA or NCPACE that begins on or 
after 1 October 2017 Sailors must:
        (1) Receive academic counseling from a Navy College Virtual Education 
Center (NCVEC) or overseas Navy College Office (NCO) counselor at least once 
per level of pursuit.  Counseling must occur before submitting official 
education plan in line with subparagraph (3) below.  Sailors can schedule 
appointments via the online appointment scheduling tool on the NCP website.
        (2) Submit, at a minimum, an unofficial education plan to the My 
Education record of the Sailor before enrolling in any classes. Example:  
Degree template from academic institution (AI) website that lists course(s) 
Sailor desires to take.
        (3) Following counseling by an NCVEC or overseas NCO counselor, 
submit an official education plan or service member Opportunity College 
Agreement to the My Education record of the Sailor within the first nine SH, 
or equivalent, of instruction. This is the degree plan agreed to between the 
Sailor and the AI.
        (4) NCPACE IL command coordinators will ensure IL participants on the 
command roster meet these requirements.
    c.  Improved technology now allows Sailors the opportunity to receive 
automated approval of TA and NCPACE DL requests for AIs who have uploaded 
their catalog of applicable courses into the AI module of the Navy College 
Management Information System provided Sailor:
        (1) Meets the funding eligibility requirements in line with reference 
(d).
        (2) Completes funding prerequisites in subparagraphs 3a, 3b(1) and 
3b(3).
        (3) Selects courses from the AI catalog that are on the Sailors 
official education plan, when submitting TA application.
        (4) Has not reached the 16 SH or equivalent FY cap.
        (5) Receives command approval of WebTA or NCPACE DL application 
between 120 and 14 days preceding the course start date.
    d.  Efficiencies gained through NCPACE and TA automation have rendered 
the Navy College Program Distance Learning Partnership obsolete and it is 
hereby canceled.

4.  Installation support, AI installation access and monitoring, and testing.
    a.  On base education programs.  In Continental United States (CONUS) NCP 
region advisors and installation COs will work together to select AIs to 
provide on-base education programs in line with established policy and 
guidelines.
    b.  AI installation access and monitoring.
        (1) References (c) and (e) detail DoD requirements for AI access to 
DoD installations.
        (2) Installation policy and procedures are posted in the AI section 
of the NCP website, which can be accessed at My Navy Portal at 
http://my.navy.mil/career-resources.html.
    c.  Testing.
        (1) College Level Exam Program and Defense Activity for Non- 
Traditional Education Services (DANTES) Subject Standardized Tests will 
continue to be administered at National Test Centers currently operated on 
Navy installations.  Sailors desiring these or additional exams must follow 
the funding and reimbursement instructions provided on the DANTES website at
www.dantes.doded.mil/examinations.
        (2) Outside the Continental United States, Defense Language Aptitude 
Battery (DLAB) and Defense Language Proficiency Testing (DLPT) will be 
offered by NCOs and other supporting naval commands. CONUS DLAB and DLPT 
administration have transitioned to the Center for Information Warfare 
Training (CIWT).  CIWT offers tests at six primary Navy Language Testing 
Offices located in San Diego, Norfolk, Everett, Jacksonville, Groton, and 
Pensacola.  For additional information, please log onto My Navy Portal and 
then navigate to: https://www.mnp.navy.mil/group/information-warfare-
training/nflto For assistance with scheduling a CONUS language test at one of 
the six Navy Language Testing Offices, please contact the testing
office.

5.  Points of contact:
    a.  Mr. Jim Johnson, OPNAV N127, who can be reached at (703) 604-5256/DSN 
664 or via e-mail at james.p.johnson(at)navy.mil.
    b.  Mr. Tom Smith, NETC N52, who can be reached at (850) 452-7271/DSN 459 
or via e-mail at thomas.a.smith4(at)navy.mil.
    c.  LCDR Nick Turner, NETPDC N2, who can be reached at (850) 452-6045/DSN 
473 or via e-mail at nick.turner(at)navy.mil.
    d.  NCVEC:  Monday-Friday, 0700-1900 Eastern Time, DSN 492-4684 or 
(877)838-1659 or www.navycollege.navy.mil.
    e.  Mr. Darrin L. Williams, CIWT Navy Foreign Language Testing Office, 
who can be reached at (850) 452-4579/DSN 473 or via e-mail at 
darrin.williams(at)navy.mil.
    f.  CIWT_CRRY_Lang_Testing_Pensacola(at)navy.mil
    g.  CIWT_CRRY_Lang_Testing_Jacksonville(at)navy.mil
    h.  CIWT_CRRY_Lang_Testing_Norfolk(at)navy.mil
    i.  CIWT_CRRY_Lang_Testing_Groton(at)navy.mil
    j.  CIWT_CRRY_Lang_Testing_Everett(at)navy.mil
    k.  CIWT_CRRY_Lang_Testing_San_Diego(at)navy.mil

6.  This NAVADMIN will remain in effect until superseded or canceled, 
whichever occurs first.

7.  Released by Vice Admiral R. P. Burke, N1.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
