UNCLASSIFIED
ROUTINE
R 121542Z SEP 17
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC
BT
UNCLAS
PASS TO OFFICE CODES:
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//

NAVADMIN 227/17

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/SEP//

SUBJ/EXECUTIVE MASTER OF BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION DISTANCE LEARNING DEGREE 
PROGRAM FOR MARCH 2018//

REF/A/MSG/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/061710ZAUG07//
AMPN/REF A IS NAVADMIN 195/07, OFFICER GRADUATE EDUCATION SERVICE 
OBLIGATION.//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN announces application procedures for the March 2018 
distance learning Executive Master of Business Administration (EMBA) program.

2.  The Naval Postgraduate School (NPS) defense-focused EMBA is a 24 month, 
fully-funded, part-time graduate program focused on resource management.  The 
program targets middle to senior grade active duty officers, lieutenant 
commander (select) and above (LT by waiver). Classes are delivered via online 
technology with synchronous interaction between faculty and students.

3.  The EMBA program begins with a required 1-week Temporary Additional Duty 
(TAD) in-residence session at NPS in Monterey, California.  The week of 19 
March to 23 March 2018 includes an orientation and a graduate level course on 
management of teams.  A second week of required TAD in-residence instruction 
will be scheduled during the second year of the EMBA program.  Other than 
these two visits to NPS Monterey, students complete all instruction from 
their home locations.  A block of rooms will be reserved in Monterey for 
attendees during orientation.  All efforts will be made to minimize TAD 
costs.

4.  The parent command of the student will provide official travel orders and 
funding for TAD travel.  If command funding is not available, students may 
fund their own travel and utilize no-cost TAD orders from their commands.

5.  Active duty Navy officers accepted into the EMBA program are integrated 
into cohorts with civilian students.  Typically, a cohort is comprised of 
about 25 students from which student teams are formed.  Cohorts take all 
classes together during the 24 months of instruction.  Students participate 
in online classes 1 day per week, approximately 6 to 7 hours per day, during 
regular continental United States duty hours.  Students will receive 
instruction via online synchronous educational software, with faculty 
teaching every session in real time.  Admission to the EMBA program is 
available to applicants in any geographic location, regardless of the number 
of applicants in a location.  Since courses are delivered via online learning 
technologies, students must have access to a computer with high-speed 
internet and audio-video capabilities suitable for web-enabled interactions 
with instructors and students.  A computer camera or webcam is required.

6.  Eligibility requirements include an undergraduate degree from a 
regionally accredited 4 year college or university, 2.6 grade point average 
or higher on a four point scale and at least one college-level mathematics 
course.  A commanding officer endorsement letter is required to participate 
in the program.  Department head or similar mid-level management experience 
and strong potential for promotion are preferred.  Participants must have a 
projected rotation date no earlier than March 2020.  The Graduate Management 
Admission Test is not required.

7.  Graduates will be awarded an EMBA degree from NPS and the Navy 
subspecialty code 3100P, Financial Management-Defense Focus. Graduates will 
also earn Defense Acquisition University Level II equivalencies for all 
program management functional equivalencies. As directed by reference (a), 
officers participating in this program must agree to remain on active duty 
following completion of graduate studies for a period of 3 years.  This 
obligation is discharged concurrently with any other service obligation 
already incurred. This agreement does not obligate the Navy to retain the 
officer on active duty.

8.  Officers interested in the EMBA program can visit the NPS EMBA home page 
at www.nps.edu/emba for detailed eligibility and application process 
information.  Deadline for the application process is no later than 4 January 
2018.  Online instruction begins 3 April 2018.

9.  Point of contact is the NPS EMBA program office at (831) 656-2562/DSN 
756, fax at (831) 656-3630/DSN 756, or via e-mail at emba(at)nps.edu.

10.  This NAVADMIN will remain in effect until superseded or 30 June 2018, 
whichever occurs first.

11.  Released by Vice Admiral R. P. Burke, N1.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
