UNCLASSIFIED

ROUTINE

R 142019Z AUG 18

FM CNO WASHINGTON DC

TO NAVADMIN

INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC

BT
UNCLAS
NAVADMIN 197/18
PASS TO OFFICE CODES:
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N2N6//
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N2N6//


MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N2N6/AUG//


SUBJ/DEPLOYMENT OF WINDOWS 10 TO NMCI (UPDATE 5)//


REF/A/LTR/DOD CIO/20NOV15//


REF/B/LTR/DEPSECDEF/8JAN18//


REF/C/NAVADMIN 038/18/R 202004Z FEB 18//


REF/D/UAB/NNWC/24APR18//


REF/E/NAVADMIN 108/18/R 031453Z MAY 18//


REF/F/NAVADMIN 138/18/R 311325Z MAY 18//


REF/G/NAVADMIN 166/18/R 131344Z JUL 18//


REF/H/NAVADMIN 182/18/R 261729Z JUL 18//


REF/I/EMAIL/WIN10 COORDINATION CENTER/3AUG18


NARR/REF (A) IS THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE (DoD) CHIEF INFORMATION OFFICER 
(CIO) MEMORANDUM, MIGRATION TO MICROSOFT WINDOWS 10 (WIN10) SECURE HOST 
BASELINE (SHB).  REF (B) IS DEPUTY SECRETARY OF DEFENSE (DEPSECDEF) 
MEMORANDUM PROMULGATING DEADLINE FOR MIGRATING OFFICE INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY 
WORKSTATIONS TO THE DOD WIN10 SHB.  REF (C) IS INITIAL NAVADMIN DETAILING 
DEPLOYMENT OF WIN10 TO THE NAVY MARINE CORPS INTRANET (NMCI).  REF (D) IS THE 
NAVAL NETWORK WARFARE COMMAND USER AWARENESS BULLETIN ON ENERGY SAVING DURING 
WIN10 MIGRATION.  REF (E) IS THE FIRST NAVADMIN IN THIS SERIES OF NMCI WIN10 
ENTERPRISE MIGRATION UPDATES.  REF (F) IS THE SECOND NAVADMIN IN THIS SERIES 
OF NMCI WIN10 ENTERPRISE MIGRATION UPDATES.  REF (G) IS THE THIRD NAVADMIN IN 
THIS SERIES OF NMCI WIN10 ENTERPRISE MIGRATION UPDATES.  REF (H) IS THE 
FOURTH NAVADMIN IN THIS SERIES OF NMCI WIN10 ENTERPRISE MIGRATION UPDATES.  
REF (I) IS AN EMAIL ANNOUNCEMENT OF WIN10 LESSONS LEARNED SUMMIT//

POC/WIN10 COORDINATION CENTER/CIV/PMW-205/-/EMAIL:  
WIN10COORDINATIO.FCT(AT)NAVY.MIL/(202) 685-0471// POC/NEN CUSTOMER ENGAGEMENT 
MANAGERS/CIV/PMW-205/-/EMAIL:  PMW_205_NEN_CEM(AT)NAVY.MIL//


RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN is the fifth and final in a series of NAVADMINs 
providing updates on the NMCI Secret Internet Protocol Routing Network 
(SIPRNet) and Non-Classified Internet Protocol Routing Network (NIPRNet) 
enterprise migration to WIN10 SHB. Migration to WIN10 SHB is necessary to 
improve cybersecurity, promote standardization across the Naval Enterprise 
Network, and comply with DoD mandates.


2.  On 31 July 2018, all Windows 7 NMCI workstations with the exception of 
embarkables and those supporting tactical operations were quarantined.  
Currently, there are approximately 4,000 quarantined workstations, and they 
will remain quarantined until they are migrated to WIN10.  The remediation 
efforts for these workstations are ongoing initiatives; efforts are focused 
on migrating, retiring, or replacing these workstations.


3.  Per reference (i), PMW-205 is hosting a WIN10 Lessons Learned Summit at 
Washington Navy Yard, Building 196 on 22 August 2018 from
1300 to 1700.  PMW-205 is soliciting input of lessons learned, so Navy can 
compile and analyze all available data.  Request lessons learned (both 
successes and challenges) are provided by 17 August 2018.  Submit your 
lessons learned to the WIN10 Coordination Center at 
win10coordinatio.fct(at)navy.mil.


4.  With the Microsoft Windows as a Service (WaaS) support model and the DoD 
SHB configurations, WIN10 updates will have to be deployed every 18 months.  
We will be modifying the testing, preparation, and deployments models for a 
faster and less disruptive migration.  Plans are already being coordinated to 
begin the deployment of the next version of WIN10 SHB in January 2019.  The 
lessons learned will be incorporated in a continuous improvement model for 
future WaaS/SHB deployments.


5.  The senior Navy leadership would like to express their appreciation of 
the herculean efforts all claimants have taken to reach the common goal of 
migration to WIN10.  Thanks to your leadership and dedication across all 
levels of the Navy we overcame numerous challenges to deploy WIN10 to the 
worlds largest intranet.  It took all of us working together as an enterprise 
team to achieve our WIN10 results, many of which are a first due to NMCIs 
scope and complexity.  It was the Navys biggest test to date of enterprise 
control!  Bravo Zulu to the entire Navy team.


6.  Released by VADM Matthew J. Kohler, Deputy Chief of Naval Operations for 
Information Warfare, OPNAV N2N6.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//

