UNCLASSIFIED//
ROUTINE
R 071559Z JAN 16
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC
BT
UNCLAS
PASS TO OFFICE CODES:
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//

NAVADMIN 008/16

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/JAN//

SUBJ/ENLISTED ASSIGNMENTS AS RECRUIT DIVISION COMMANDERS//

REF/A/DOC/COMNAVPERSCOM/29NOV10//
AMPN/REF A IS MILPERSMAN ARTICLE 1306-954, RECRUIT DIVISION COMMANDER (RDC) 
DUTY.//

RMKS/1.  A strong and resilient Navy is built on the leadership put in place 
to develop our force.  The Navy’s accessions training at Officer Training 
Command Newport (OTCN) and Recruit Training Command (RTC) is our starting 
point for turning civilians into Sailors by instilling the Navy’s Core 
Values.  The leaders that provide this initial training are the Recruit 
Division Commanders (RDC).

2.  I ask Navy leadership to canvass their top quality enlisted personnel and 
encourage them to consider RDC as their next shore duty choice.  The job of 
an RDC is not easy shore duty.  The hours are long, the work is physically 
challenging, and strong character and personal integrity are required 
throughout the RDCs work day. However, the personal reward of training and 
preparing Sailors for the Fleet is unmatched.  Commands should make a special 
effort to encourage their best and brightest to apply for RDC duty.

3.  Reference (a) lists the criteria for RDC duty.  Serving as an RDC results 
not only in growth as a leader, increased career advancement opportunities, 
and a feeling of self-fulfillment, but it also includes the following 
benefits:
   - $450 per month Special Duty Assignment Pay,
   - Additional annual clothing allowance of $220,
   - Opportunity to earn a Master Training Specialist Qualification,
   - Per the ACE Evaluation, RDCs may earn up to 24 college credits
     (both upper and lower credits) towards a Bachelors Degree, and
   - Choice of follow-on coast assignment.

4.  Training to be an RDC begins at RDC C School.  Candidates must have 
passed the most recent physical fitness assessment, including the run.  No 
optional cardio respiratory event may be substituted. RDCs at OTCN are E-7 
and above and at RTC, RDCs are E-5 and above.

5.  Interested Sailors must submit a NAVPERS 1306/7 (Enlisted Personnel 
Action Request) requesting duty as an RDC to the appropriate rating detailer.  
Reference (a) contains all screening requirements and instructions for waiver 
submissions.  All commands with interested Sailors must ensure that packages 
for prospective RDC candidates are screened thoroughly.  Additional 
information can be found on the NPC website at 
http://www.public.navy.mil/bupers-
npc/enlisted/detailing/shorespecialprograms/pages/default2.aspx.
Screening packages must be sent via e-mail to
michael.d.campbell3(at)navy.mil, by fax to (901) 874-2646/DSN 882, or by mail 
to:  Commander, Navy Personnel Command, PERS 4010, 5720 Integrity Drive, 
Millington, TN 38055-4000.

6.  Released by Vice Admiral W. F. Moran, N1.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
