UNCLASSIFIED

ROUTINE

R 301556Z AUG 16

FM CNO WASHINGTON DC

TO NAVADMIN

INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC

BT
UNCLAS
PASS TO OFFICE CODES:
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//

NAVADMIN 194/16

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/AUG//

SUBJ/2016 VICE ADMIRAL JAMES BOND STOCKDALE LEADERSHIP AWARD WINNERS//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN announces the 2016 recipients of the Vice Admiral 
James Bond Stockdale Leadership Award.  CDR Gary G. Montalvo, Commanding 
Officer of USS NORTH CAROLINA (SSN 777) (Pacific Fleet) and CDR Ken J.
Kleinschnittger, former Commanding Officer of Explosive Ordnance Disposal 
Mobile Unit TWELVE (EODMU-12) (Fleet Forces Command) were selected for their 
inspirational leadership.

2.  This fleet award was established in honor of VADM James Bond Stockdale, 
whose distinguished naval career symbolized the highest standards of 
excellence in both personal example and leadership.  The award is presented 
annually to two commissioned officers on active duty in the grade of 
commander or below who are serving in command of a single ship, submarine, 
aviation squadron, Sea, Air, Land (SEAL) team, naval special warfare 
squadron, SEAL delivery vehicle team, special boat team, explosive ordnance 
disposal mobile unit, mobile diving and salvage unit, or Navy special 
clearance team during the nomination cycle.  Candidates are nominated by 
peers who themselves must be eligible for the award.

3.  The 2016 winners were chosen from among eight outstanding finalists in a 
review process that included screening at the fleet commander level and final 
selection by a board of senior officers.

4.  The following finalists deserve well-earned congratulations:
    a.  Pacific Fleet finalists:
      - CDR Ryan J. Blazevich, Commanding Officer, USS PICKNEY (DDG 91)
      - CDR Gary A. Harrington II, former Commanding Officer, USS
        GERMANTOWN (LSD 42)
      - CDR Ralph L. McQueen III, Commanding Officer, Helicopter Sea
        Combat Squadron TWELVE (HSC-12)
    b.  Fleet Forces Command finalists:
      - CDR Kevin J. Hoffman, Commanding Officer, USS JASON DUNHAM (DDG 109)
      - CDR Kenneth M. Curtin, Commanding Officer, USS WYOMING (SSBN 742)
        (Gold Crew)
      - CDR Douglas M. Langenberg, Commanding Officer, Strike Fighter
        Squadron TWO ONE THREE (VFA-213)

5.  CDR Ken J. Kleinschnittger and CDR Gary G. Montalvo, as well as all 
nominees, should be justifiably proud of their achievements.

6.  Awards will be presented at a ceremony to be determined at a later date.

7.  This NAVADMIN will be kept for record purposes, and will remain in effect 
until canceled or superseded.

8.  Released by Vice Admiral R. P. Burke, N1.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
