UNCLASSIFIED
ROUTINE
R 131405Z APR 17
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC
BT
UNCLAS
PASS TO OFFICE CODES:
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//

NAVADMIN 091/17

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/APR//

SUBJ/FY-19 NAVY SELECTED RESERVE LIMITED DUTY OFFICER AND CHIEF WARRANT 
OFFICER IN-SERVICE PROCUREMENT PROGRAM BOARDS//

REF/A/DOC/OPNAV/14DEC09//
REF/B/DOC/OPNAV/12APR16//
REF/C/MSG/CNO WASHINGTON DC/171307ZSEP12//
REF/D/MSG/CNO WASHINGTON DC/131544ZDEC07//
REF/E/MSG/CNO WASHINGTON DC/091410ZFEB00//
NARR/REF A IS OPNAVINST 1420.1B, ENLISTED TO OFFICER COMMISSIONING PROGRAMS 
APPLICATION ADMINISTRATIVE MANUAL.  REF B IS OPNAVINST 1120.12A, APPOINTMENT 
OF LIMITED DUTY OFFICERS (LDO) AND CHIEF WARRANT OFFICERS (CWO) IN THE NAVY 
RESERVE.  REF C IS NAVADMIN 281/12, ADVANCED CHANGE NOTICE TO OPNAVINST 
1420.1B, CHAPTER SEVEN, LIMITED DUTY OFFICER AND CHIEF WARRANT OFFICER 
APPLICATION INSTRUCTION AND POLICY.  REF D IS NAVADMIN 336/07, ADMINISTRATION 
OF THE NAVY-WIDE ADVANCEMENT EXAM FOR SAILORS IN IRAQ, AFGHANISTAN, AND THE 
HORN OF AFRICA.  REF E IS NAVADMIN 018/00, SPECIAL DUTY ASSIGNMENT PAY.//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN announces the solicitation of applications from highly 
qualified and motivated E-6 through E-9 Sailors for the FY-19 Navy Selected 
Reserve Limited Duty Officer (LDO) and Chief Warrant Officer (CWO) programs.  
LDOs and CWOs bring a variety of experience and unique perspectives into the 
wardroom from their enlisted service.  LDO/CWO career paths provide 
additional leadership opportunities and enhance a Sailors ability to 
contribute to the Navy Reserve.  These programs deliver to the officer corps 
seasoned professionals with proven leadership abilities at an economical 
cost.  LDOs provide broad technical management and leadership skills, and 
CWOs provide specific technical expertise and leadership skills in support of 
the Unrestricted Line, Restricted Line, and Staff Corps communities.  LDOs 
and CWOs serve in a variety of leadership billets within their technical 
fields, ranging from division officers to commanding officers (CO).

2.  Eligible Sailors are encouraged to apply for the designators for which 
they are most qualified, regardless of current rating.  Refer to references 
(a) through (c) for eligibility criteria and application format.  For the 
most current information regarding application procedures, and board 
membership applications, visit the LDO/CWO webpage at 
http://www.public.navy.mil/bupers-
npc/officer/communitymanagers/ldo_cwo/pages/references.aspx.

3.  The FY-19 Navy Selected Reserve LDO/CWO In-service Procurement Board will 
convene at a date to be determined in January 2018.  For the most current 
board dates, visit Navy Personnel Command (NPC) board webpage at 
http://www.public.navy.mil/bupers-
npc/boards/selectionboardsupport/pages/default2.aspx and select FY- 19 Board 
Schedule when available.  Applications must be received by the NPC Selection 
Board Support Division no later than 1 October 2017.  Routine addendums to 
applications, excluding evaluations and awards, must be received no later 
than 1 December 2017.  Evaluations and awards must be received no later than 
1 January 2018. Communication to the board must originate from the individual 
member.  Information received that is not under the applicants cover letter 
(e.g., third party correspondence) or not received by the NPC Selection Board 
Support Division by the established deadline will not be presented to the 
board.  The time and date (central standard time) received in the NPC 
Selection Board Support Division inbox is the time and date used for deadline 
verification.  Although a late letter to the board may be accepted by the NPC 
Selection Board Support Division, it will not be presented to the board.  All 
applications/addendums must have member’s full social security number on each 
page.  Applications must be mailed to NPC Selection Board Support Division.  
Only time sensitive submissions may be submitted electronically.  Electronic 
submissions must be sent using military e-mail accounts and be encrypted.  
Hard copy and electronic submissions must include a command endorsement.  The 
application mailing address is:

    a.  Navy Personnel Command Selection
        Board Support Division
        President FY-19 Navy Selected Reserve Enlisted to Limited
        Duty Officer and Chief Warrant Officer In-service
        Procurement Selection Board #19315
        PERS-35 Selection Board Support Division
        Bldg 769 Rm 198
        5720 Integrity Drive
        Millington, TN 38055-3500

    b.  Express mail:
        Navy Personnel Selection
        Board Support Division
        President FY-19 Navy Selected Reserve Enlisted to Limited
        Duty Officer and Chief Warrant Officer In-service
        Procurement Selection Board #19315
        5640 Ticonderoga Loop Bldg 768 RM E302
        Millington, TN 38055

    c.  E-mail:  cscselboard(at)navy.mil (time-sensitive documents
        only)

4.  Interview appraisal boards will be constructed and approved by the 
CO/Officer-in-Charge (OIC) and consist of a minimum of three naval officers 
(LDO/CWO, if available).  Every effort will be used to ensure at least one 
board member is from the designator for which the applicant is applying 
(including but not limited to teleconference, video teleconference, defense 
connect online, etc.). All applicants applying to the 715X or 717X 
designators must have the CO of Sea, Air, and Land Team 17 or 18 as an 
interview appraisal board member if the applicant is assigned outside of the 
Naval Special Warfare claimancy.  Minimum grade requirements for board 
members are lieutenant junior grade or CWO2 with 2 years’ time-in-grade.  A 
minimum of three (maximum of five) interview appraisals must be submitted for 
each applicant.  The Potential block on interview appraisals must be marked 
for LDO/CWO candidates.  Only the current version of the Interviewers 
Appraisal Sheet (NAVCRUIT 1131/5 Rev 02-2014) will be accepted.

5.  For applicants who have or are currently serving in Individual 
Augmentee/Global Support Assignments (IA/GSA), include these tours in the 
Assignment History section of the application.  COs/OICs recommendation must 
include validation of any listed IA/GSA assignment and the statement in 
reference (c), paragraph 3.

6.  Applicants currently serving on IA/GSA may have their application 
endorsed by their field commander.  All applications endorsed by field 
commanders must have their parent command concurrence.  Sample concurrence 
letter is located at http://www.public.navy.mil/bupers-
npc/boards/administrative/ldo_cwo/pages/default.aspx.

7.  Applicants must ensure copies of the most recent periodic evaluation are 
included in the application or later addendum for board review and 
continuity.  First Class Petty Officers must submit their 15 November 2017 
evaluation via addendum.

8.  Time-in-service (TIS) for the FY-19 board must be computed to 1 October 
2018.  Per references (a) and (b), TIS is synonymous with years of qualifying 
service toward a non-regular (reserve) retirement.

9.  Per reference (c), TIS eligibility is 8 to 14 years for LDO and 14 to 20 
years for CWO.  However, TIS waivers will be considered and adjudicated on a 
case-by-case basis by the Head Reserve Officer Community Manager (OCM) 
(BUPERS-318).  Potential applicants, outside of the TIS eligibility window, 
are encouraged to contact the Reserve LDO/CWO OCM in paragraph 17 of this 
NAVADMIN to discuss TIS waiver opportunities.

10.  The Selected Reserve LDO/CWO Board will consider candidates for the 
following officer designators: 623X, 626X, 628X, 629X, 633X, 641X, 649X, 
653X, 683X, 711X, 712X, 713X, 715X, 716X, 717X, 781X, 782X, and 783X.  For up 
to date information concerning open designators, visit the community manager 
page at http://www.public.navy.mil/bupers-
npc/officer/communitymanagers/reserve/selres/pages/RCLDOCWO.aspx.

11.  Applicants must maintain eligibility throughout the selection and 
commissioning process.  Applicants that are deemed ineligible after the 
submission of applications must be declared ineligible by their current CO, 
field commander if on an IA or parent command CO. A sample format is located 
at http://www.public.navy.mil/bupers-
npc/boards/administrative/ldo_cwo/pages/default.aspx.

12.  Each applicant and command must ensure that applications are complete 
and accurate.  Incomplete applications could result in non-selection.  Refer 
to references (a), (chapters 2, 7, and appendix b, c, and f) for program 
overview, eligibility criteria, and application format.

13.  For the most up-to-date application process, visit the Administrative 
Boards Branch (PERS-803) website at http://www.public.navy.mil/bupers-
npc/boards/administrative/ldo_cwo/pages/default.aspx.  This site contains 
application help and a review checklist to print and include in the 
application folder.  This site also contains guidance such as NPC Selection 
Board Support Division mailing info/receipts check link, how to monitor 
application status on BUPERS On-line after Affiliation and Redesignation 
(PERS-92) review, and how to reconcile application errors via addendum if 
items or corrections are required for completeness or eligibility.

14.  Per reference (b), all applicants must include a statement on page 7 of 
Officer Package Application (OPNAV 1420/1 Rev 01-08), agreeing to further 
service, as follows:  I, [name], if selected for permanent appointment under 
the Navy Reserve LDO/CWO program, agree to accept such appointment and 
further agree to remain in the Ready Reserve for a period of 3 years after I 
accept such appointment.

15.  CO/OICs endorsement located on page 10 of OPNAV 1420/1 (Rev 01-08), must 
contain the following statement:  "Applicant meets all requirements outlined 
in OPNAVINST 1420.1B, NAVADMIN 281/12, NAVADMIN XXX/17 (use the NAVADMIN # 
for this message), and the physical fitness standards of OPNAVINST 6110.1J."

16.  First Class Petty Officers serving in Iraq, Afghanistan, and the Horn of 
Africa that are determined Chief Petty Officer board eligible per reference 
(d) or reference (e) are also eligible for LDO if all other eligibility 
requirements are met.

17.  Points of contact:
    a.  For application and eligibility questions, contact PSC Catherine 
Kuntz, PERS-92, at (901)874-3209/DSN 882; 
e-mail: catherine.kuntz(at)navy.mil.
    b.  General LDO/CWO career path and policy, contact LCDR Matthew 
Mooshegian, Reserve LDO/CWO OCM, at (901) 874-3291/DSN 882; 
e-mail: matthew.mooshegian(at)navy.mil.

18.  This NAVADMIN will remain in effect until superseded or 30 September 
2018, whichever comes first.

19.  Released by Vice Admiral R. P. Burke, N1.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
