UNCLASSIFIED//
ROUTINE
R 181252Z JUN 15
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC
BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 141/15

SUBJ/MERITORIOUS ADVANCEMENT PROGRAM//

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/JUN//
REF/A/MSG/SECNAV/121505ZJUN15//
REF/B/DOC/BUPERS/2NOV07//
REF/C/DOC/OPNAVINST/5FEB09//
REF/D/MSG/CNO WASHINGTON/N1/172213ZOCT14//
NARR/REF A IS ALNAV 050/15, DEPARTMENT OF NAVY TALENT MANAGEMENT INITIATIVES. 
REF B IS BUPERSINST 1430.16F, ADVANCEMENT MANUAL FOR ENLISTED PERSONNEL OF 
THE U.S. NAVY AND U.S. NAVY RESERVE.  REF C IS OPNAVINST 1430.4B, NAVY 
RECRUITER MERITORIOUS ADVANCEMENT PROGRAMS. REF D IS NAVADMIN 245/14, COMMAND 
ADVANCEMENT PROGRAM UPDATE.//

RMKS/1.  Per reference (a) and on-going efforts to further empower command 
triads in the advancement of our top performing Sailors, the Command 
Advancement Program is hereby changed in name and scope to the Meritorious 
Advancement Program (MAP).  Program updates will be included in the revision 
of reference (b).

2.  MAP provides commands the opportunity to recognize their best Sailors, 
advancing them when they are ready for the next level of responsibility. This 
is about giving greater authority to commands to better shape their workforce 
and the Navy by developing and rewarding our best talent.  To provide 
flexibility, MAP will allow commands to petition for additional meritorious 
advancements or surrender those not needed in a given season.  Feedback will 
be important as we continue to evolve and adjust this program to meet the 
needs of the Fleet.

3.  The following guidance is provided to codify and explain the details of 
this change.  Reference (c) is canceled and will be included in the pending 
revision to reference (b).  MAP validation requirements, timeline, policies 
and procedures outlined in references (b) and (d) for FY-15 are hereby 
modified.
    a.  MAP open season will take place 1 July - 31 August 2015. All initial 
MAP certification letters (MCL) must be received by Enlisted Career 
Administration/Enlisted Boards (PERS-81) no later than (NLT) 31 August 2015.
    b.  MAP redistribution season will take place from 1-30 September 2015.  
If authorized, all additional MCLs must be received by PERS-81 NLT 30 
September 2015.
    c.  Time-in-Rate remains:  1 July 2015.
    d.  Date-of-Rank (DOR) remains:  1 July 2015 or date of CO’s MCL, 
whichever is later.  Commands are encouraged to submit MCLs as early as 
possible.
    e.  MAP candidates must be attached to the MAP authorized command during 
the FY-15 MAP season (i.e. any day(s) from 1 July 2015 - 30 September 2015).
    f.  Per reference (b), pre-commissioning units are not authorized to 
submit MCLs until on or after actual delivery date or in-service date, 
whichever is sooner.

4.  MAP Certification Letter.  Commands can begin submitting MCLs upon 
release of this NAVADMIN; however, the earliest effective DOR for MAP 
candidates identified before the open season is 1 July 2015. All other MAP 
advancements will be the date of the MCL.  All commands authorized MAP quotas 
in references (b) and (d) are required to submit one consolidated MCL during 
the FY-15 MAP open season.  The MCL must include all candidates selected for 
the FY-15 MAP open season, or submit the letter stating *none* if the command 
chooses not to select any candidate(s).  Negative responses are required.  
Commands will continue to be afforded the opportunity to correct any 
discrepancies per reference (d).  An additional MCL will be required if the 
command is provided additional MAP quotas in accordance with paragraph (5) 
and negative responses are required.
    a.  An example of a MCL will be posted on the Navy Personnel Command 
(NPC) website at http://www.npc.navy.mil/bupers-
npc/career/enlistedcareeradmin/Pages/Advancement.aspx upon the release of 
this NAVADMIN.
    b.  The example MCL will also be sent out via the career counselor 
network.  If your command career counselor does not receive the example 
certification letter and cannot access the NPC website, please contact PERS-
81 at advancements-active(at)navy.mil and a copy will be e-mailed.
    c.  E-mail is the preferred method for submission of the MCL to PERS-81 
at: advancements-active(at)Navy.mil.  An e-mail response validating the MCL 
should be received within four business days of submission.

5.  MAP Quota Utilization.  During the FY-15 MAP open season, authorized 
commands have the opportunity to return unused quotas and/or request 
additional MAP quotas as a part of the MAP certification process.
    a.  Each authorized command must identify unused quotas in paragraph 3 of 
the MCL, if applicable.  Provide brief explanation as to why quota(s) were 
unused (e.g. lack of eligible candidates). Returning quotas will not reduce 
or affect the command*s future number of MAP quotas.
    b.  Each authorized command may request additional quotas, by pay grade 
and rating, in paragraph 4 of the MCL.  MAP authorized commands do not need 
to utilize all initial quotas in order to request additional quotas (e.g. 
return of two E4 quotas and request for one additional E5 quota is 
authorized).
    c.  During the FY-15 MAP redistribution season, unused quotas will be 
redistributed to the returning MAP command’s echelon II commander.  Pending 
availability, additional quotas may only be provided to commands that 
requested additional quotas in their MCL.
    d.  Once additional quotas have been granted, the MAP candidate(s) must 
match the paygrade authorized or be used for a lower paygrade, provided the 
lower paygrade and rating was requested in the MCL (e.g., if an additional E5 
MAP quota is authorized, it can only be used for an E5 or E4 advancement).

6.  Further expansion of MAP is under review by Chief of Naval Personnel and 
Fleet leadership.

7.  Points of contact for additional information is Navy Personnel Command 
Customer Service Center (NPC CSC), at 1-866-u-ask-npc (1-866-827-5672) or via 
e-mail at uasknpc(at)navy.mil.

8.  Additional information and frequently asked questions may also be found 
at http://www.npc.navy.mil/bupers-
npc/career/enlistedcareeradmin/Pages/default1.aspx.

9.  This NAVADMIN will remain in effect until reference (b) has been revised 
in its entirety or until it is superseded or canceled, whichever comes first.

10.  Released by Vice Admiral W. F. Moran, N1.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
