UNCLASSIFIED
ROUTINE
R 302106Z JUN 17
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 158/17

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/DNS/JUN//

SUBJ/2017 MRS. SYBIL STOCKDALE OMBUDSMAN OF THE YEAR AWARD RECIPIENTS//

RMKS/1.  I am pleased to announce the selection of four outstanding Ombudsmen 
as the 2017 Mrs. Sybil Stockdale Ombudsman of the Year Award recipients.  
These volunteers exemplify the spirit of Mrs. Sybil Stockdale who supported 
the families of Prisoners of War during her husband, Vice Admiral James Bond 
Stockdale’s internment in Southeast Asia.  This award recognizes those who 
serve as inspirational Ombudsmen and embody the ideals of volunteer service 
and commitment to Navy Sailors and their families.

2.  The following Ombudsmen were nominated by their commanding officers for 
serving their command and families with extraordinary, selfless dedication 
and commitment to family readiness. Congratulations to:
    a.  Mrs. Deanna Jones, Ombudsman for USS HELENA (SSN 725), selected from 
all sea commands under Commander, U.S. Fleet Forces Command;
    b.  Mrs. Amy McCormick, Ombudsman for USS CONNECTICUT (SSN 22), selected 
from all sea commands under Commander, U.S. Pacific Fleet;
    c.  Mrs. Jennifer Ringwald-Pulley, Ombudsman for Commander, U.S. Naval 
Forces Europe/Africa, selected from all naval shore activities in the Navy;
    d.  Mrs. Michelle Harvey, Ombudsman for Navy Operational Support Center 
Kitsap, selected from all Reserve commands under Commander, Navy Reserve 
Force.

3. The Stockdale Ombudsman of the Year Awards will be presented at the Naval 
District Washington Ombudsman Appreciation Luncheon on 26 September 2017 at 
the Joint Base Anacostia-Bolling Club.

4. Thank you to all Command Ombudsmen who maintain the highest standards of 
professionalism and create a healthy sense of community by being positive 
role models for command members and their families.

5.  Commander, Navy Installations Command point of contact is Ms. Carrie 
Mast, Ombudsman Program Coordinator, (202) 433-4701 (DSN 288), email is 
carrie.mast1(at)navy.mil.

6.  Released by VADM J. G. FOGGO, Director, Navy Staff.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
