UNCLASSIFIED//

ROUTINE

R 181636Z JAN 19

FM CNO WASHINGTON DC

TO NAVADMIN

INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC

BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 013/19

PASS TO OFFICE CODES:
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N2N6//
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N2N6//

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N2N6/JAN//

SUBJ/DEPLOYMENT OF WINDOWS 10 VERSION 1803 TO NMCI//

REF/A/LTR/DOD CIO/20NOV15//

REF/B/LTR/DEPSECDEF/8JAN18//
POC/WIN10 COORDINATION CENTER/CIV/PMW-205/-/EMAIL:  
WIN10COORDINATIO.FCT(AT)NAVY.MIL/TEL: (202)685-0471//

NARR/REF A IS THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE (DOD) CHIEF INFORMATION OFFICER (CIO) 
MEMORANDUM, MIGRATION TO MICROSOFT WINDOWS 10 (WIN10) SECURE HOST BASELINE.  
REF B IS THE DEPUTY SECRETARY OF DEFENSE MEMORANDUM PROMULGATING DEADLINE FOR 
MIGRATING OFFICE INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY WORKSTATIONS TO THE DOD MICROSOFT 
WIN10 SHB.

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN announces the rollout of WIN10 version 1803 (v1803) to 
the Navy Marine Corps Intranet (NMCI) Secret Internet Protocol Routing 
Network (SIPRNet) and Non-Classified Internet Protocol Routing Network 
(NIPRNet) enterprise.  It outlines the migration plan and the user 
responsibilities for the rollout, which have been extensively coordinated 
with Fleet Cyber Command (FCC)/Commander TENTH Fleet (C10F) and Echelon 2 
CIOs.  Implementation on OCONUS Navy Enterprise Network, Excepted Networks, 
and Information Technology for the 21st century will be addressed separately.  
Leadership engagement is critical to ensure the upgrades to WIN10 v1803 occur 
on time to improve cyber security and comply with the DoD mandate.

2.  Extensive lessons learned from the previous WIN10 upgrade were solicited 
and used to ensure process improvement and to minimize impact to users and 
system administrators for this WIN10 v1803 upgrade.  Early adoption rollouts 
are in progress and have been used to identify and eliminate issues that may 
affect the broader rollout.  FCC/C10F will issue orders to initiate 
enterprise seat updates.  The seats to be upgraded have been selected and 
prioritized by Echelon 2 CIOs to minimize impacts to mission and key 
leadership.  The preload packages are being distributed via various redundant 
efforts and will be completed prior to the seats starting the upgrade to 
minimize impact to network performance.  When an individual seat has received 
all preloads and passed a pre-flight check, it will receive an execution 
package and start the migration at the user initiated Green Shutdown.  The 
average time that a seat will be unavailable is approximately three to five 
hours.

3.  Participants of each rollout will receive tailored user instructions 
prior to the start date.  It is important for participants to read and follow 
these instructions as specific actions will be required.  Early lessons 
learned are that any deviation from the instructions resulted in delay in 
completing the upgrade and extended user down time.  More information and 
guidance on the WIN10 v1803 update can be found on the NMCI Homeport at 
https://www.homeport.navy.mil/management/windows10 to include a webinar 
presentation, helpful hints, frequently asked questions, and specific issue 
guidelines.

4.  CIOs and Contract Technical Representatives (CTRs) are responsible for 
tracking the readiness and completion of migration for their commands to 
ensure that planned seat migrations remain on track.  CIOs and CTRs must 
ensure that users are informed of the importance of maintaining the seat in a 
healthy state and they do not delay the migration.

5.  Individual User Responsibilities
    a.  End of Day Actions.  Once each seat receives all required preload 
packages, the user will receive a notification that the WIN 10 v1803 update 
is ready for installation.  At the end of the day users will need to execute 
a Green Shutdown by clicking the Windows logo from the desktop bar and 
selecting Shut Down, and selecting Yes when prompted to perform a Green 
Shutdown.  This will manage the reboot cycle necessary to complete the update 
overnight.  All users shall restart their seats nightly, including those who 
traditionally take their unclassified laptops home.  Please note that Green 
Shutdowns are usually quick when done regularly and time-consuming when not 
done as a best practice.
    b.  Protection of Personal Data.  Users should back up any personal data 
on their seats by utilizing their personal H: drive or contacting their 
Information Technician support staff for alternate backup methods if data 
backup exceeds H: drive capacity.
    c.  Network Connection.  Users must ensure that individual machines are 
plugged in and physically connected to the NMCI network when scheduled for 
migration.  Migration cannot be completed via NMCI Enterprise WiFi or Remote 
Access Service connection.
    d.  XPS Viewer.  Microsoft has retired XPS Viewer and it is not supported 
in WIN10 v1803.  Users are advised to check if they retain files in XPS 
format and convert to PDF before migration.
    e.  Users in Restricted Access/Controlled Access Areas are recommended to 
preload seats by Digital Video Disk in accordance with instruction provided 
Separate Correspondence.

6.  The NMCI Service Desk has established top-level end user support directly 
for WIN10 v1803 that can be accessed by dialing (866) 843-6624 and selecting 
Option 3 from the option prompt.

7.  Released by VADM Matthew J. Kohler, Deputy Chief of Naval Operations for 
Information Warfare, OPNAV N2N6.

BT
#0001
NNNN



