UNCLASSIFIED//

ROUTINE

R 181543Z DEC 19 MID510000814169U

FM CNO WASHINGTON DC

TO NAVADMIN

INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC

BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 295/19

PASS TO OFFICE CODES:
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/DEC//

SUBJ/CALENDAR YEAR 2019 SPIRIT OF HOPE AND ZACHARY AND ELIZABETH FISHER 
DISTINGUISHED CIVILIAN HUMANITARIAN AWARD NOMINATIONS//

REF/A/DOC/DOD/10JAN13//

REF/B/DOC/SECNAV/15MAY98//

NARR/REF A IS DODINST 1005.14, THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE SPIRIT OF HOPE (SOH) 
AWARD.  REF B IS SECNAVINST 5061.16, ZACHARY AND ELIZABETH FISHER 
DISTINGUISHED CIVILIAN HUMANITARIAN AWARD.//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN announces the call for nominations and selection 
process for the annual Spirit of Hope (SOH) Award and Zachary and Elizabeth 
Fisher Distinguished Civilian Humanitarian Award.

2.  Each year, we have the opportunity to honor worthy supporters 
(individuals or organizations) with two awards, the SOH Award (Navy
recipient) and the Zachary and Elizabeth Distinguished Civilian Humanitarian 
Award (Department of Defense recipient) - both awards are named in honor of 
legendary supporters of our Service Members and families.

3.  The SOH Award is presented to individuals or organizations that embody 
the core values of Mr. Bob Hope, who gave generously to military men and 
women for five decades.  The Fisher Award recognizes private sector 
individuals or organizations that demonstrate exceptional patriotism and 
humanitarian service for Service Members of the U. S. Armed Forces or their 
families as inspired by Zachary and Elizabeth Fisher, founders of the Fisher 
Houses (one of their many contributions to assist military Service Members 
and veterans).

4.  All nominee packages will be considered for both awards (if eligible).
Nomination packages shall be submitted to Deputy Chief of Naval Operations 
(Manpower, Personnel, Training and Education (N1)) via command channels.
Nominations must be received no later than 9 March 2020.  Completed packages 
(following final endorsement) may be scanned and forwarded via encrypted e- 
mail to Ms. Millie King, 21st Century Sailor, at millie.king(at)navy.mil.

5.  Nomination package content shall, at a minimum, include a two-page 
summary of action/statement of justification, biography (or organization 
history), supporting documentation and a forwarding nomination letter or e-
mail from the sponsoring command.

6.  The criteria for the SOH Award is detailed in reference (a).  The 
criteria for the Zachary and Elizabeth Fisher Distinguished Civilian 
Humanitarian Award is detailed in reference (b).

7.  Additional information about the SOH and Fisher Awards including a 
nomination template can be found via MyNavy portal at 
https://my.navy.mil/quick-links.html.  Click on the Navy Personnel Command 
link, then the Support and Services header, then click the 21st Century 
Sailor tab, then the Total Sailor Fitness tab and then the Spirit of Hope 
Award.

8.  The award recipients will be announced via Navy news story.

9.  Released by Vice Admiral John B. Nowell, Jr, N1.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//

