UNCLASSIFIED/
ROUTINE
R 221406Z DEC 14 PSN 748906K34
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 279/14

SUBJ/ACTIVE-DUTY PROMOTIONS TO THE PERMANENT GRADES OF CAPTAIN, COMMANDER, 
LIEUTENANT COMMANDER, LIEUTENANT, AND CHIEF WARRANT OFFICERS IN THE LINE AND 
STAFF CORPS//

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/DEC//
REF/A/DOC/OPNAV/11JUL11//
REF/B/DOC/OPNAV/28FEB12//
REF/C/DOC/SECNAV/15DEC05//
REF/D/DOC/COMNAVPERSCOM/23JUL07//
NARR/REF A IS OPNAVINST 6110.1J, PHYSICAL READINESS PROGRAM. REF B IS 
OPNAVINST 1811.3A, VOLUNTARY RETIREMENT AND TRANSFER TO THE FLEET RESERVE OF 
MEMBERS OF THE NAVY SERVING ON ACTIVE DUTY. REF C IS SECNAVINST 1920.6C, 
ADMINISTRATIVE SEPARATION OF OFFICER. REF D IS MILPERSMAN ARTICLE 1070-180, 
OFFICER PHOTOGRAPHS.//

RMKS/1.  Congratulations to the following officers on their promotions to the 
ranks indicated in this message.  This NAVADMIN is the authority for 
effecting permanent officer promotions on the dates indicated.  Columns read 
name and designator.
                      PERMANENT PROMOTION TO CAPTAIN
                   SENATE CONFIRMATION DATE 25 JUNE 2014
                       DOR/EFF DATE 1 JANUARY 2015
 Hall Francis X           2100         Herzig Thomas Charles    2300
 Johnson Bryon Keith      1110         Klaszky Robert A         1110
 Laubach Jonathan Bronson 1320         Moslener Brandt A        1510
 Nelson Tiffany S         2100         Parrish William J        3100
 Schram Mark A            1110         Sellock George Daniel    2200
 Wathen Michael S         1310
                      PERMANENT PROMOTION TO COMMANDER
              COMMANDER LINE AND STAFF SENATE CONFIRMATION DATE
                  LINE 25 JUNE 2014      STAFF 31 JULY 2014
                        DOR/EFF DATE 1 JANUARY 2015
 Beehner Zachary A        1710         Benson Bryce A           1110
 Bobb Christopher P       6400         Bonvie Joseph Leonard    2300
 Clark Derrick Leron      1830         Coggins Chris Michael    5100
 Coombs Matthew Kent      1310         Deleo Nicholas C         1310
 Fanning Matthew David    1120         Griffith Erin A          2100
 Johnson Patricia B       2900         Kline Robert Todd        2500
 Korn Michelle Sukwan     1110         Kulow Keith Stephen      1310
 Mahoney James E Jr       1120         Mason Edward James       1130
 Maxwell Micah Dee        1120         McCall Valerie Michelle  3100
 Moreno Oscar R           1440         Morrill Scott Michael    1310
 Neall David Gordon       1310         Ohleger Kristin L        1310
 Picinich David Anthony   1310         Polk Travis M            2100
 Romano Mark Abdall       2200         Schaller Erich U         1110
 Smith Kevin James        1820         Stennett Darren Lee      4100

                 PERMANENT PROMOTION TO LIEUTENANT COMMANDER
        LIEUTENANT COMMANDER LINE AND STAFF SENATE CONFIRMATION DATE
               LINE 31 JULY 2014      STAFF 17 SEPTEMBER 2014
                        DOR/EFF DATE 1 JANUARY 2015
 Babcock James F          3100         Bayer Matthew Edward     1310
 Blaszczyk Mark A         1110         Braun Jeremy D           1310
 Calhoun Lance            2300         Chu Hyong Young          3100
 Coulter William G        1320         Daffron Joshua W         1110
 Downs Jason Wayne        1460         Ellis Anthony Earl       1820
 Eshenour Henry Paul      1110         Feist Matthew Philip     2100
 Forbes Ryan G            2500         Gardner Calvin Bruce Sr  4100
 Garlington Scott A       1320         Gasser Brandon B         1310
 Gatta Derek Bradford     2200         Holland Christopher Dway 1120
 Holmes Bradley C         1310         Howey William John III   1120
 Johnson Errol Collin Jr  6490         Johnson Gerald James Jr  1830
 Kennerly Wesley Glenn    1310         Kos Michael J            1120
 Kraft George Charles III 2900         Krozel Mark K            1110
 Lamb Jeremy Dean         2300         Lynn Maxcy C III         1320
 Mahoney David D          1110         Mason Jamie Scott        1440
 McAtee Randall Lee       6420         McKenna Michelle Kay     2900
 Melendez Kristina Nicole 1110         Moerbe Sandranell Laurel 5100
 Pesik Robert I           1110         Polnaszek Christopher Le 1110
 Pratt Matthew George     1310         Roberts Jeffrey Richard  1120
 Robesch William J        1310         Robins Danielle Michelle 2100
 Rodriguez Sergius Marcel 1830         Ryan Craig Thomas        1310
 Saa Reynel               1200         Sahim Jonathan James     1810
 Salcedo Ramir C          2900         Shivashankar Santhosh Ku 1820
 Spinelli Joseph          2100         Staso Phillip A          1320
 Tiller Daren Daniel      6400         Tremel Michael Quinn     1310
 Warner John F III        1110         Wilcox Clifton James     2100
 Yoder James Austin       2100
                      PERMANENT PROMOTION TO LIEUTENANT
                         DOR/EFF DATE 1 APRIL 2014
 Tucker Jason Michael     1140
                        DOR/EFF DATE 1 JANUARY 2015
 Ackerman Nicholas Matthe 1110         Adams Terry R            1830
 Agbevey Edward W         2300         Ames Christopher Alan    1310
 Ananti Ezindu Uzoma      2900         Andersen Christopher Cur 1210
 Arthur Richard Eugene II 1210         Asch Jeffrey J           1110
 Asencio Jason Charles    2300         Ashinhurst Nathan D      1110
 Atakturk Kyle Erhan      1310         Babawale Abiola Afusat   2900
 Barnett Victor Lance     1300         Batchelder Christa Ann   1310
 Batchelder Gerald K      1310         Beaman Anna Renee        2900
 Behrens Jared L          1110         Bergman Justin Marcus    1170
 Bernard Matthew Steven   1810         Bitner Paul J            1320
 Bivans Joseph Corby      1110         Bonair Lauren Elizabeth  2900
 Borgelt Alexander Linden 1830         Boris Kevin Joseph       3100
 Bower Jennifer M         1110         Brigowatz James G        1820
 Brown Andrew Charles     1320         Brown Jonathan Devitt    1520
 Bueno Alvin J            1310         Bules Brian Gordon       1830
 Burton Beau James        2300         Callender Chad Kinser    1310
 Caloca Jose Luis         1320         Carl Daniel J            1110
 Castelli Nicholas P      1310         Cecil Todd Eric          1830
 Chery Jennifer Ingrid    2300         Choate Jackson Milo      1210
 Christ Allison J         2900         Christensen Matthew Jaco 2300
 Cook Timothy Theodore    1830         Cowan Matthew D          1190
 Cozby James Allison V    1310         Cramer Charles William   1310
 Crow Ian Johnathan       2300         Cuff Stephen Alphonso    3100
 Cushing John J Jr        1390         Danner Brendan Paul      1140
 Darrah Andrew Todd       2300         Davids Trevor J          1650
 Davis Brett Michael      1110         Davis Jathan L           1810
 Deanon Aaron Benri Herna 3100         Dearmon Steven Edward    5100
 Devine Peter A           1310         Dobbins Jonathan M       1140
 Dotson Elisha E          1110         Downing Andrew Thomas    5100
 Duhn Jesse B             1120         Duke Christopher Michael 1310
 Dunlavy Tony Gene        1110         Dunn Trevor Michael      1310
 Edwards Brent Allen      2900         Efinger Daniel R         1310
 Egbert Lauren Alison     2900         Elam John Edgar III      2300
 Elsbree James M          1120         Espinosa Ireneoeduardo N 2900
 Fahey Cole D             1310         Finning Justin J         1110
 Ford Yahmaine            5100         Formanek Mary Margaret   1830
 Forsyth Douglas Allen    2300         Foster Andrew B          1110
 Franks Jason William     1210         Gandia Jose Paulo Ellori 1110
 Gardner Kelli R          1110         Garner Shawn Harold      1120
 Geiszler Max M           1110         Gerhart Blaed Jacob      2300
 Girolamo Robert Geoffrey 2900         Givens Jared Lyn         3100
 Gonzalez Francheska P    1320         Goode Taylor A           1120
 Grande Aimee Katherine   2300         Greeson Alexandra R      2900
 Guida Mark Angelo        5100         Guidry Niesha Marie      2300
 Hardin Andrew Scott      2900         Harrold Kimberly S       1320
 Hartman Derek John       1310         Hartwig Brian C          1310
 Hawk Casey William       1110         Hawley Jacob Daniel      1310
 Hays Samuel Page         1310         Heaney Joshua M          1110
 Heathman Stephen Matthew 4100         Hebert Christopher Lee   5100
 Hendricks Michael Ryan   2900         Higgins Thomas A         1310
 Hinkle Katherine Thompso 1110         Hobart Richard T         1110
 Holman Rebecca Rose      1110         Holton Jonathan R        1120
 Hoover Caitlin Skelley   2300         Hoppe David E            1520
 Howell James Ryan        1160         Huntley Jacob R          1110
 Hussein Faisa T          1110         Hutchinson Gerald Eugene 5100
 Igoe Phillip Michael     1170         Isfahani Victoria Parris 2300
 Jablonski Geoffrey C     1110         Jackson Terry Antonio II 1110
 Johnson Lawrence R       2900         Kaczorowski Ryan J       1310
 Kamensky Daniel J        1310         Keel Rory C              1130
 Kennedy Sean Michael     1210         Kenny James D            1110
 Kind Stephanie Anna      1830         Klein Jordan A           1110
 Kosakowski Nicole Marie  2300         Kovach Christopher David 1310
 Krasovetz Scott Edward   2300         Kroll Blake Matthew      1310
 Kuder Angela D           1110         Kugelman Matthew Raymond 2300
 Lacamiento Jared Anthony 2900         Lambright Kathrine Lindi 2900
 Landauer Jordan J        1120         Lawson Matthew J         2900
 Le Ho T                  1120         Le Mien Thuy             2900
 Lee Travis J             1310         Legendre Richard Travis  1520
 Leight William David     1310         Leonhardes Anton         1310
 Lewis Christopher S      1310         Lewis Eric Alan          2300
 Little Robyn Christian   2300         Macie Edward Roger       2300
 Mack Davi G              2900         Magalhaes Richelle Marie 2300
 Marlow Michael T         1310         Martinezalvarez Katherin 1200
 Mayes Kyle C             1310         Mayfield Christine N     1310
 McFadden Crystal L N     1110         McGahan Shaun Patrick    3100
 McGinnis Alan J          1120         Medina Christine Berry   2300
 Merrow Matthew Robert    1310         Meyers Lonnie Eugene II  2300
 Miller Selby Lorraine    1110         Milne John H IV          1310
 Moczygemba Daniel R      1310         Morana Kathleen A        1110
 Morrow Joshua J          1110         Murdock Charles Ferdinan 5100
 Nee Andrew D             1370         Nelson Samantha Lieko    2900
 Ngo Courtenay Nicole     1820         Nguyen Dalton Khac       1110
 Norrell Travis J         1110         Norris John Mcgregor     1320
 Nunn Joshua A            1310         Nunnikhoven Andrew J     1390
 Odriscoll Lisa Marie     2900         Ogrady Michael R         1310
 Ogungbe Olufemi Olugboye 2900         Onwujiobi Samuel Elochuk 2900
 Orozco Roberta Linda     2900         Payne Christopher G      2900
 Peterson David Brian     1210         Peterson Niels W         1120
 Place Kathryn R          1110         Plank Justin S           1130
 Pusateri Scott Thomas    2300         Ransom Derrick Edward    1320
 Reed Branden M           1310         Reed Bryan J             1310
 Remmers David A          1110         Richards Ryan David      2900
 Riegert Andrew Josef     1170         Ritchie Anthony Phillip  2900
 Riverafontan Gamalier    3100         Robbins William H        1110
 Roberts Bret Masters     3100         Robertson Lauren Elizabe 1830
 Rogers Grant Allen       1310         Ross Dante Alan          1120
 Rossetti Christopher Hen 2300         Runge Aaron S            1110
 Salvaggio Anna Michelle  1800         Sanders Ashley Laura     2900
 Sasko Jeremy Allen       1520         Schladt Jason D          1110
 Schrautemyer Albert J II 1310         Schrutka Karl C          1120
 Schwarz Aaron E          1520         Seymour Brian Patrick    1320
 Shipley Joel B           1110         Simmons Michael J        1110
 Sivulich Mary Catherine  2900         Sizemore Aileen David    2900
 Smith Danielle A         1110         Smith Nicholas Andrew    1320
 Smith Ryan Russell       2300         Smith Sarah Christine    1110
 Soss Keith Harold        1310         Sours Samuel Justin      2900
 Spencer William P        1130         Stanley Joseph Edward    1810
 Starsinic Daniel James   1320         Sterling Kelly Tenee     2300
 Stira David Joseph       1110         Stone Joshua Michael     2300
 Stroup Aaron M           1170         Sullivan Christina Ann   3100
 Sutphin John Grantham    4100         Sutphin Robert Lee       1310
 Sutter Gregory C         1310         Sweetser Ryan W          1310
 Taft Bryce Alexander     1120         Tang Christopher C       1110
 Teriak Ramy Fayez        3100         Thomas Peter Michael     1830
 Tibbetts Jonathan Urban  1110         Tobias Kirra Kristen     2900
 Toohey Hans W            1310         Torielli Emilie F        1310
 Treutlein Aimee Louise   1110         Trost Jonathan J         1120
 Turner Melvin William    2900         Ulfers Benjamin Stuart   1820
 Valdyke Charles E        1460         Vasquez Felino Jonathan  1830
 Veenhuis Christopher Bra 1200         Vynne John Fletcher      1320
 Walkemeyer Daniel J      1310         Wallace Jamie Elizabeth  5100
 Walton Christopher Elija 4100         Wasson Myles Fletcher    1310
 Waters Richard Otis III  1310         Webb James Andrew        1310
 Weeks Todd Keith         1110         Wehn Danielle Elizabeth  2300
 Wich Anthony J           1310         Willey Daniel E          1310
 Williams Brett Raymond   1110         Williams Erin Mattie     2900
 Williams Thomas R        2900         Woodard Katie Lynne      1110
 Woods Cameron James      1830         Wright Andria Monique    2900
 Wright Matthew Eaton     1110         Wright William C         1220
 Wyman Caleb J            1310         Zenan Kyla Marie         1110
 Zollweg Peter Jazeps     1320
                LIMITED DUTY OFFICER PROMOTION TO LIEUTENANT
                        DOR/EFF DATE 1 JANUARY 2015
 Bates Rick William       6262         Bristow Hakim Shakur     6422
 Browning Marcus Tryone   6412         Cardona Juan David       6492
 Clark Matthew Robertson  6492         Coleman Kerrie Vankeith  6162
 Cook Korrin Kay          6182         Dunn Shenequa Shanette   6442
 Edwards Derrick Dantavio 6442         Esposito Michael Anthony 6402
 Evans Lee Edward         6412         Fomuso Tamfu Gwegang     6132
 Fox Makia Nicole         6412         Gonzalez Miguel Angel    6402
 Hahn Joshua Tyler        6262         Harman James Patrick     6122
 Harper Michael Lynn      6332         Hoffman Aurelio William  6422
 Johnekins Lamar Timothy  6332         Lambson Jason Allen      6162
 Ledford John Manvers Jr  6532         Menn Randy S             6332
 Miller Justin Graham     6402         Moffitt Tori Jean        6462
 Morrison Daniel Ray      6412         Payne Alena Dawn         6412
 Phillips Lashondra Patri 6112         Pratt Daniel John        6362
 Rose Samuel Hale         6332         Sanchez Jose Leonor III  6122
 Stan Codrut Ioanghiorghi 6292         Taylor Darryl Maurice    6412
 West Gregory Taurus      6392         Williams David Daniel    6182
 Wish Todd William        6182
              PERMANENT PROMOTION TO CHIEF WARRANT OFFICER, W-5
                        DOR/EFF DATE 1 JANUARY 2015
 Ellis Ronald Shawn       7111
              PERMANENT PROMOTION TO CHIEF WARRANT OFFICER, W-4
                        DOR/EFF DATE 1 JANUARY 2015
 Arreola David            7131         Banks Stephen Patrick    7181
 Bryan Abraham III        7131         Everington Floyd Nathani 7361
 Masikip Casimiro V Jr    7511         Myers Roger Neil         7181
 Siddens Brian Lee        7331         Ware Jarvis Jermaine     7441
 Williams Anthony Lee     7411
              PERMANENT PROMOTION TO CHIEF WARRANT OFFICER, W-3
                        DOR/EFF DATE 1 JANUARY 2015
 Memmel Richard Louis     7181

2.  If a selected officer does not decline his or her promotion in writing 
prior to his or her projected date of rank (noted above in paragraph 1), that 
officer is considered to have accepted the promotion on the date indicated. 
An officer who chooses to decline his or her promotion must submit the 
declination in writing to COMNAVPERSCOM (PERS-806), prior to the effective 
date indicated above.  Limited duty officers declining appointment to 
lieutenant will be reverted to enlisted status within 90 days of projected 
promotion date.

3.  The commanding officer (CO), the Secretary of the Navy, or his designee 
has the authority to delay projected appointments.  Upon the exercise of a 
delay, the officer shall be notified in writing before the effective date of 
the appointment, and not be tendered the appointment.  The delay authority 
will immediately forward the recommendation to delay with supporting 
documentation to COMNAVPERSCOM (PERS-83), copy to COMNAVPERSCOM (PERS-806).

4.  COs are reminded of their responsibility to ensure the officers they are 
promoting are mentally, physically, morally and professionally qualified.   
Per reference (a), officers are ineligible for promotion if they have failed 
the most recent physical fitness assessment.  COs shall verify the promoting 
officer's information in the physical readiness information management system 
(PRIMS) to ensure compliance with reference (a) and delay the officer*s 
promotion in accordance with paragraph 3 if required.

5.  Prepare a Delivery of Temporary/Permanent Appointment (NAVPERS form 
1421/7) (Rev 10-13).  Use this NAVADMIN as reference (a).  Use section 624 of 
title 10, U.S. Code as reference (b), for permanent lieutenants and above.  
Use section 578 of title 10, U.S. Code as reference (b), for chief warrant 
officers.  Use sections 624 and 5589 of title 10, U.S. Code as reference (b), 
for limited duty officer promotion to lieutenant.  Limited duty officer 
appointment to lieutenant is a permanent appointment; acceptance of the 
appointment is acceptance of permanent appointment as a limited duty officer.  
Mail the completed form to COMNAVPERSCOM (PERS-806).

6.  Officers should review reference (b), for minimum time-in-grade 
requirements for purposes of voluntary retirement.  Full time support 
officers and those officers temporarily on active-duty anticipating release 
from active-duty under reference (c), may accept promotion without incurring 
any additional active-duty obligation.

7.  New photographs are required for all officers within three months after 
acceptance of promotion.  See reference (d), for specific requirements.

8.  Released by Vice Admiral W. F. Moran, N1.//

BT
#1964
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
