UNCLASSIFIED//
ROUTINE
R 261709Z OCT 15
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC
BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 247/15

SUBJ/ACTIVE-DUTY PROMOTIONS TO THE PERMANENT GRADES OF CAPTAIN, COMMANDER, 
LIEUTENANT COMMANDER, LIEUTENANT, AND CHIEF WARRANT OFFICERS IN THE LINE AND 
STAFF CORPS//

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/OCT//
REF/A/DOC/OPNAV/11JUL11//
REF/B/DOC/OPNAV/28FEB12//
REF/C/DOC/SECNAV/15DEC05//
REF/D/DOC/COMNAVPERSCOM/23JUL07//
NARR/REF A IS OPNAVINST 6110.1J, PHYSICAL READINESS PROGRAM. REF B IS 
OPNAVINST 1811.3A, VOLUNTARY RETIREMENT AND TRANSFER TO THE FLEET RESERVE OF 
MEMBERS OF THE NAVY SERVING ON ACTIVE-DUTY. REF C IS SECNAVINST 1920.6C, 
ADMINISTRATIVE SEPARATION OF OFFICERS. REF D IS MILPERSMAN ARTICLE 1070-180, 
OFFICER PHOTOGRAPHS.//

RMKS/1.  Congratulations to the following officers on their promotions to the 
ranks indicated in this message.  This NAVADMIN is the authority for 
effecting permanent officer promotions on the dates indicated.  Columns read 
name and designator.
                       PERMANENT PROMOTION TO CAPTAIN
               CAPTAIN LINE AND STAFF SENATE CONFIRMATION DATE
                  LINE 23 JUNE 2015      STAFF 23 JUNE 2015
                          DOR/EFF DATE 1 NOVEMBER 2015
 Carlin Marvin Winfield I 1310         Evenson Darin Ardell     1130
 Hardy David Wallace      2300         Heaven Sandra Kay        2900
 Lanzilotta Paul J        1320         Miller Michael John      1320
 Pesile Christopher Louis 1310         Severseike Eric Laverne  1120
 Shultz Thomas E          1110         Stepenosky James E       2100
                      PERMANENT PROMOTION TO COMMANDER
                    SENATE CONFIRMATION DATE 31 JULY 2014
                          DOR/EFF DATE 1 JANUARY 2015
 Johnson Jeffery Chad     2100
              COMMANDER LINE AND STAFF SENATE CONFIRMATION DATE
                 LINE 23 JUNE 2015      STAFF 05 AUGUST 2015
                          DOR/EFF DATE 1 NOVEMBER 2015
 Barry Michael J          2100         Boger Jon Gregory        1110
 Borngen Amanda Mae       1830         Breeden Wilbert B        1110
 Brown Joseph Clifton III 1110         Chittick Shaun Allan     1130
 Colon Jose Antonio       6360         Domachowski James Anthon 1110
 Espiritu Samuel Gilbert  2100         Gruell Michael S         1110
 Harty Cambrai Ellen      2900         Landers John Thomas      2100
 Lukacs John A IV         1440         Mccollum Corey S         1110
 Meskimen Brett Michael   1310         Nowlin Robert Leo        1110
 Reyes Ronel Cruz         1110         Rojas Anthony Alexander  1310
 Stroot Abram Michael     1310         Thompson Bruce Howard    2300
 Tirrell William K        1810         Torresacosta Salvador    3100
 Venckus James Lee        3100         Weymouth Mark A          1310
                 PERMANENT PROMOTION TO LIEUTENANT COMMANDER
        LIEUTENANT COMMANDER LINE AND STAFF SENATE CONFIRMATION DATE
             LINE 28 SEPTEMBER 2015      STAFF 28 SEPTEMBER 2015
                          DOR/EFF DATE 1 OCTOBER 2015
 Abitria Richard R        2100         Addison Cara Marie       2500
 Adewetan Oluwafadekemi N 2200         Benjamin Sheri Mae       2900
 Berthold Matthew George  1310         Blackburn Russell Leon J 6160
 Bowers Micheal Paul      2300         Braxton Elyse Marie      2900
 Chavez Francisco N III   6490         Christian Xavier M       1110
 Clapper Stephanie Collee 2300         Colvin Brandon Jackson   1320
 Cooper Thomas Gene       2200         Curry John Paul          1520
 Dehnz Michael Todd       1830         Dreese Derrick Adam      1200
 Farber Adam Michae       1320         Ford Clinton             6510
 Fox Collin Reeves        1310         Hamilton Adam Lee        3100
 Heller Jarrett L         1310         Henry Sadie Mar          2100
 Herring Bryanna Helene   1510         Hoopengardner David Alan 1310
 Hunt David Andrew        1310         Jew Kenneth D            1810
 Jing Ling                2100         Kahl Kevin Michael       1310
 Krukowski Christopher P  1310         Lambertus Joshua John    1830
 Lanclos Raymond Joseph I 3100         Lang Karrie M            1820
 Leon Ramses Nelson       1310         Lester John Michael      1310
 Leverone Carlo D         1310         Lloyd David Christopher  1650
 Long Austin M IV         1310         Manzoli Peter Bradley    1810
 Marks Jason Polito       3100         Mcdonald Tyler Bradford  1460
 Miller Thomas F          1110         Mims David Lemuel        6490
 Musser Rachael M         5100         Nassif Douglas Vaughn    1320
 Nieves Maria Lizette     2100         Osterhaus Michael Joseph 1310
 Oxendine Joseph Ryan     1800         Perrott Patrick Jesse    1310
 Pittman Christopher Jame 1310         Queen David William      2300
 Radomile David Michael   1310         Rodriguezsosa Francisco  2900
 Rummel Ian Mccaig        1310         Sandifer James Henry Jr  6390
 Schafer Harvey J II      1310         Shold Kristopher Michael 1310
 Sonoda Sean M            1710         Temple Kimberley Ann     6110
 Walter Joseph Francis    1120         Williams Ronald T        1110
                          DOR/EFF DATE 1 NOVEMBER 2015
 Adamovich Brielle Lorett 1810         Babakan Andrew David     1320
 Barletto Bryan Christian 2500         Beck Jared Cameron       2200
 Buckley Omari D          1110         Chambers Adam Dwayne     6120
 Chrisostomidis Merlin J  1310         Conyer Jason Eric        6360
 Coppock Michael Scott    1310         Corbett Derek Wade       1320
 Eggers David Cory        3100         Emmons W Todd            1310
 Estrada Giovanni Augusti 1120         Fenton Cory M            1310
 Gibson Robert D          2900         Gonzales Albert Heredia  6410
 Gore Robert M            1120         Gustine John Walters     1310
 Hulecki Jonathan A       1130         Hutton Stephen Brett     2200
 Jackson Ryan Richard     1320         Jansen Brittany Jean     2300
 Jarvis Leslie Allen Jr   1440         Kendris Alexander Bryan  1110
 Larsen Eric Christian    2100         Lawson Sean Patrick      1320
 Love Christopher Scott   2100         Mcclure Robert Ian       2100
 Mcnew Jerry Lynn Jr      6120         Miller Brandon J         1310
 Moore Caleb C            1320         Moore Joshua Jay         1310
 Moore Michael Edward     1830         Murph Douglas E          1310
 Naff Jessica Lynn        2100         Pierce Katherine Elizabe 2300
 Pinckney Robert Reid Jr  1820         Prager Zachary William   2500
 Reeves Dana Edward       1320         Robinson Kaia Tegan      2300
 Russell Matthew Craig    2100         Scameheorn Casey D       1310
 Selby Domenique Kim      2900         Sharp Greg D             1310
 Sitorius Jonathan Edward 1320         Stein Christopher Howard 1320
 Stonegarza Kristi Kim    2100         Suazo Rafael Esteban     5100
 Tate Laura Anne          2900         Taylor Nicholas B        1310
 Tegtmeyer Bradley C      1320         Wernly Mark H            1310
 Wheatley Cory Lee        1440         Winn Timothy James       3100
 Wright Troy Lee          6410
                      PERMANENT PROMOTION TO LIEUTENANT
                          DOR/EFF DATE 1 JUNE 2014
 Boca Gean Michael        2300
                          DOR/EFF DATE 1 OCTOBER 2014
 Cepeda Carlos Rafael     1110         Rubin Gregory Steven     1110
                          DOR/EFF DATE 1 DECEMBER 2014
 Fulwiler Alexander Holt  1310         White Gregory Alan       1200
                          DOR/EFF DATE 1 JUNE 2015
 Burke Tyrone B           1110
                          DOR/EFF DATE 1 AUGUST 2015
 Fondale Joseph Edward    1200
                          DOR/EFF DATE 1 NOVEMBER 2015
 Abercrombie Ryan Robert  1300         Alatorre Eduardo         5100
 Allen Wesley Martin      5100         Andreoli Aaron Nicholas  3100
 Armour Joshua Nathan     1110         Babcock Heather Ann      2300
 Baca Tyson Joseph        5100         Baehler Brian Russell    1170
 Bangaroo Mereya Gabriell 2900         Bardwell Andrew Alan     1110
 Bashinski Nathan Shane   5100         Beasley Alexander James  1310
 Becker Justin Roy        2300         Bennett Justin Davis     2500
 Berting Joshua Michael   1110         Bertucci Andrea Nina     2500
 Boggs Chelsey Jeffers    2500         Boyer David George       5100
 Bracken Theodore Lane Jr 1170         Branch Dante Lavon       1110
 Brinker Lauren Elizabeth 2500         Brown Jason Robert       1820
 Brown Ryan Christopher   1120         Buchanan Robert Clyde II 1120
 Bunt John Martin         2500         Canting Katie Anne       2900
 Carter Richard Daniel    1310         Cascadden Conrad Winston 2500
 Cath Cameron Stanwood    1110         Cecil Justin Brian       1830
 Collins Courtne Santrise 2300         Couch Anthony Joseph     2500
 Coulson Karl John        5100         Culbert Richard Conlon   2500
 Demarzo Joseph Benjamin  5100         Dias Alexis Lee          5100
 Dibenedetto Gregory Scot 1310         Ebbitt Tyler Joseph      1310
 Espinoza Christopher Jos 1520         Evans Erik Benjamin      1120
 Fabricante Carol Aranas  2900         Gale Paul Aaron          1120
 Gallegos Elizabeth Vanlo 2900         Gehron Nicole Renee      2900
 Gi Young Joo             1820         Gildemeyer Scott James   1110
 Grider Jordan Timothy    1110         Haight Benjamin William  2500
 Hanessian Drew Clinton J 3100         Hawkins Faithann Marie   3100
 Healy Ryan Patrick       2500         Hentges Jacob Bryan      1320
 Hess Laura Elizabeth     5100         Hoang Vu Cat             1160
 Holsinger Kathrine Elise 2500         Hussong Walter Roger II  3100
 Irgens Katherine Elizabe 1120         Ironroad Christopher Jam 2500
 Ison Charles Robert III  1110         Jacobson Laura Michelle  2500
 Jalkanen Isaac John      2500         Jenkins Nadine Nacole    2500
 Jimenez Eric             1120         Jimenez Marissa O        1110
 Johns Ruth Anne          2900         Johnson Corey Allen      1310
 Karisch Augustus Theodor 1110         Kedrowski Devan V        1110
 Kennedy Ryan Anthony     2500         Korol Evan Michael Dewey 1810
 Koss Collin Wesley       1110         Kuplic Georgia Blair Ste 2500
 Laton Andrew Benjamin    1320         Lawrenz Heidi Danielle   5100
 Layne David Alexander    2500         Leary Jeffrey Keegan     1120
 Lichi Anthony Jacob      1830         Lingenfelter Joshua Lee  5100
 Lopardo Valarie Anne     2300         Ludwig Russell Charles   1110
 Ma Han                   1320         Macavoy Samuel Elliott   3100
 Maddox David Benjamin    2500         Maldarelli Karen Anne    2300
 Mariano Jason Don        1830         Marquez Jorge Luis       1110
 Mayer Jaime Matthew      1110         Mcanelly Eric William    1830
 Mccann Nathaniel Ray     3100         Melton Andrew Pearson    1830
 Morgan Daniel Robert     1310         Newby Daniel Benjamin    1170
 Newell Trenton Paul      1830         Obrien Jason Charles     2500
 Olsen Christopher Gabrie 1830         Osborne Matthew Brandon  1160
 Pagan Joel David         1110         Parks Michael Lee Jr     1810
 Pendleton Joshua Taylor  1170         Pennington Aaron Adam    1830
 Perez Reynaldo Castro Jr 1520         Pottsszoke Edward Jeffre 1320
 Quagliano Elizabeth Ann  5100         Ramsburg Constance Fay   2300
 Reiffen Adam Hamilton    1830         Restrepomolina Veronica  2300
 Rezzo David John         1120         Rodewald Oliver Russell  1120
 Santarelli Stephanie Gon 1110         Sasser Joshua Clay       5100
 Saylor Chad David        2900         Schlesinger Wesley Danie 1110
 Seifried Alison Marie    1320         Smart Alexander Douglas  1310
 Steele Cara Lynne Waldo  2500         Stitt Andrew Blake       5100
 Stymfal Matthew Gregory  3100         Tang Richard The Lu      1170
 Thomas Joseph Dillan II  3100         Tilley Heather Patina    1460
 Wagner Kyle Henry        1110         Walker Thomas Oliver II  2500
 Wang Andy                3100         Watson Nicholas Thomas   5100
 Watts Joshua Anthony     1320         Wilson Eran Charles      1310
 Womack Jayson Andrew     5100
                LIMITED DUTY OFFICER PROMOTION TO LIEUTENANT
                          DOR/EFF DATE 1 NOVEMBER 2015
 Abt Deena Rachelle       6112         Bickerstaff Shea Anderso 6392
 Branske Shawn Christophe 6232         Chesser Aaron James      6182
 Curry Samuel Ryan        6162         Demakas Vincent Stavros  6482
 Dimier David Albert      6482         Edionwele Clement Inegbe 6492
 England Terry Allen      6282         Hamby Jarrod Dwight      6412
 Jones Jason Joseph       6182         Lewis James Edward       6182
 Madge Joseph Glen        6532         Moye Patricia Wong       6362
 Nakho Jeffrey W          6332         Noel Kenson Fernan       6362
 Nystrom Dennis Howard    6162         Olvera Federico Guillerm 6122
 Ouellette Nathan Jacob   6492         Phelps Donald Edward II  6332
 Ramirez Michelle Louann  6162         Schrump Michael Joe      6132
 Sheeley Corey Allan      6412         Shurtleff Richard Dean   6332
 Urick Brandon Carl       6422         Valencia David G         6422
 Vertz Nicholas Daniel    6532
              PERMANENT PROMOTION TO CHIEF WARRANT OFFICER, W-5
                          DOR/EFF DATE 1 NOVEMBER 2015
 Payne Theresa            7521
              PERMANENT PROMOTION TO CHIEF WARRANT OFFICER, W-4
                          DOR/EFF DATE 1 NOVEMBER 2015
 Baker Warren Earl Jr     7311         Bolin William Vining     7421
 Kypros Jason Dennis      7201         Milam Thomas Reed        7111
 Nichols Ryan Gary        7331         Sledge David Lee         7161
 Stewart Eric Shawn       7131         Walker Bryant Oneal      7421
 Warren Harold Dewayne    7131
              PERMANENT PROMOTION TO CHIEF WARRANT OFFICER, W-3
                          DOR/EFF DATE 1 MAY 2015
 Walker Raymond Dion      7411
                          DOR/EFF DATE 1 NOVEMBER 2015
 Dorgan Cathy Jo          7421         Francis Kyle Sidane      7131
 Gipson Lester Tyrone     7361         Heim Eric Thomas         7121
 Hohbach Joshua Lee       7361         Lemley Mark Russell      7441
 Marks Jeremy Dwane       7131         Nelson Richard Lee       7161
 Sherman Erik James       7361         Urness Jeffery Marc      7441
 Wasson Robert David Jr   7121

2.  If a selected officer does not decline his or her promotion in writing 
prior to his or her projected date of rank (noted above in paragraph 1), that 
officer is considered to have accepted the promotion on the date indicated.  
An officer who chooses to decline his or her promotion must submit the 
declination in writing to COMNAVPERSCOM (PERS-806), prior to the effective 
date indicated above.  Limited duty officers declining appointment to 
lieutenant will be reverted to enlisted status within 90 days of projected 
promotion date.

3.  The commanding officer (CO), the Secretary of the Navy or his designee, 
have the authority to delay projected appointments.  Upon the exercise of a 
delay, the officer shall be notified in writing before the effective date of 
the appointment, and not be tendered the appointment.  The delay authority 
will immediately forward the recommendation to delay with supporting 
documentation to COMNAVPERSCOM (PERS-83), copy to COMNAVPERSCOM (PERS-806).

4.  COs are reminded of their responsibility to ensure the officers they are 
promoting are mentally, physically, morally and professionally qualified.   
Per reference (a), officers are ineligible for promotion if they have failed 
the most recent Physical Fitness Assessment.  COs shall verify the promoting 
officer's information in the Physical Readiness Information Management System 
(PRIMS) to ensure compliance with reference (a) and delay the officers 
promotion in accordance with paragraph 3 if required.

5.  Prepare a Delivery of Temporary/Permanent Appointment (NAVPERS form 
1421/7) (Rev 10-13).  Use this NAVADMIN as reference (a). Use section 624 of 
title 10, U.S. Code as reference (b), for permanent lieutenants and above.  
Use section 578 of title 10, U.S.C. as reference (b), for chief warrant 
officers.  Use sections 624 and 5589 of title 10, U.S. Code as reference (b), 
for limited duty officer promotion to lieutenant.  Limited duty officer 
appointment to lieutenant is a permanent appointment; acceptance of the 
appointment is acceptance of permanent appointment as a limited duty officer.  
Mail the completed form to COMNAVPERSCOM (PERS-806).

6.  Officers should review reference (b), for minimum time-in-grade 
requirements for purposes of voluntary retirement.  Full time support 
officers and those officers temporarily on active duty anticipating release 
from active duty under reference (c), may accept promotion without incurring 
any additional active duty obligation.

7.  New photographs are required for all officers within three months after 
acceptance of promotion.  See reference (d), for specific requirements.

8.  Released by Vice Admiral W. F. Moran, N1.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
