RTTUZYUW RUEWMCS0133 1601821-UUUU--RUCRNAD
ZNR UUUUU
R 091821Z JUN 14
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//
TO NAVADMIN
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//
BT
UNCLAS//
NAVADMIN 133/14

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N4/JUN//

SUBJ/2013 ADMIRAL STAN ARTHUR AWARDS ANNOUNCEMENT//

REF/A/MSG/CNO WASHINGTON DC/R 271528Z FEB 14//
AMPN/REF A IS ADMIRAL STAN ARTHUR AWARD CALL FOR 2013 NOMINATIONS MESSAGE.//
POC/CAPT BRUCE MILLER/N413M/ARLINGTON, VA/TEL: (703) 695-4861/EMAIL: 
BRUCE.M.MILLER1(AT)NAVY.MIL//

RMKS/1.  A Flag/SES panel reviewed candidate nominations and selected the 
2013 Admiral Stan Arthur Award winners IAW ref A.  This award recognizes 
military and civilian logisticians who epitomize excellence in logistics 
planning and execution.  I am pleased to announce the 2013 Admiral Stan 
Arthur Award winners:
    A.  The Military Logistician of the Year is LtCol David S. Phillips, 
USMC, assigned to Naval Air Systems Command.  As H-53 Assistant Program 
Manager for Logistics, he played a critical role in beta testing NAVAIR's 
maintenance and supply chain management analysis tool.  This data analysis 
tool collected and fused data from nineteen Navy and Defense Logistics Agency 
databases and provided trending data, measuring current reliability against 
baseline data.  LtCol Phillips' Critical Process Improvement efforts resulted 
in a projected 30 percent reduction in critical component lead time for H-53E 
main gearbox housing and more than 40 percent reduction in lead time for main 
rotor shafts.  Additionally, use of age exploration on the H-53E main gearbox 
resulted in an increase in the service life of this asset from 2000 to 2400 
hours and a savings of 3.5 million dollars per year in aviation depot level 
repair.  LtCol Phillips' efforts over the last year provided tangible results 
and improved joint logistics readiness of United States forces.
    B.  The Civilian Logistician of the Year is Mr. Mark D. Dexter assigned 
to United States Pacific Fleet.  Mr. Dexter, as the Logistics Lead for 
Financial Improvement Audit Readiness, conceived and spearheaded the 
development of an integrated plan to improve the United States Pacific 
Fleet's performance in the Military Standard Requisitioning and Issues 
Procedures audit program.  Mr. Dexter's superior dedication, organizational 
skills, and technical ability allowed United States Pacific Fleet Financial 
Improvement Audit Readiness scores to improve from 22.8 to 97.2 percent in 
less than a year, allowing assertion two months early.  Mr. Dexter led the 
effort in solving the document retention problem facing ships and submarines 
by rapidly creating a compact scanning and retention system using commercial 
off the shelf components and software.  Mr. Dexter's efforts reduced 
shipboard workload, improved audit responsiveness, and contributed 
significantly to a positive financial audit readiness report to the United 
States Congress.  Mr. Dexter's efforts over the last year provided tangible 
results and have improved Navy's logistics readiness. 
    C.  The Logistics Team of the Year is the Naval Aviation Excess Inventory 
Team from Naval Supply Systems Command.  The Naval Aviation Excess Inventory 
Team developed a first of its kind process to maximize use of existing Navy 
Working Capital Fund excess inventory at Naval Air Stations in direct support 
of the Chief of Naval Operations strategic mandate to "Be Ready."  Through 
collaboration across multiple echelons and commands, the team conducted a 
detailed analysis of multiple logistics procedures used to process referrals 
and subsequently developed a workable automated Navy Enterprise Resource 
Planning procedure that was implemented at 21 Naval Air Stations around the 
globe.  During the period March to December 2013, the automated process 
developed by the team filled 107,000 requisitions valued at 390 million 
dollars.  Furthermore, the team developed, tested, and implemented a program 
for the Defense Logistics Agency to refer other Services' back orders against 
the excess Navy stock resulting in readiness improvement to the Joint 
Warfighter.

2.  An awards ceremony, via video teleconference, with ADM Arthur (ret) and 
the winning members' commands is scheduled for 2 July 2014.  The OPNAV POC 
will contact winning commands to make arrangements for the ceremony.

3.  My heartiest congratulations to the winners!  Your superlative 
achievements resulted in substantial and quantifiable benefits to the United 
States Navy and enhanced the logistics profession.  BRAVO ZULU!

4.  Released by VADM P. H. Cullom, OPNAV N4.//

BT
#0133
NNNN

