UNCLASSIFIED//

ROUTINE

R 211408Z MAY 19

FM CNO WASHINGTON DC

TO NAVADMIN

INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC

BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 114/19

PASS TO OFFICE CODES:
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/MAY//

SUBJ/TUITION ASSISTANCE POLICY UPDATE//

REF/A/DOC/OPNAV N1/4MAR08//

REF/B/DOC/NETC/20JAN11//

REF/C/MSG/CNO WASHINGTON DC/211448ZMAY18//

NARR/REF A IS OPNAVINST 1560.9A, VOLED FOR NAVY SAILORS.  REF B IS NETCINST 
1560.3, VOLED FOR NAVY SAILORS.  REF C IS NAVADMIN 127/18, TUITION ASSISTANCE 
PROGRAM UPDATES.

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN announces additional management controls for Tuition 
Assistance (TA) and Navy College Program for Afloat College Education 
(NCPACE) in references (a) through (c).

2.  At mid-year review, FY-19 TA demand was 30% higher than the same point in 
FY-18.  Lifting the 16 semester hour cap in reference (c), combined with 
improved access through virtual service delivery caused an unsustainable TA 
spend rate.  As a result, we anticipate that TA funding will run out this 
month with no additional funding to be made available for the remainder of 
FY-19.  Sailors currently taking classes or in receipt of a funded TA voucher 
are not impacted.  Affected Sailors who desire to continue taking courses for 
the remainder of FY-19 should contact the Navy College Virtual Education 
Center (NCVEC) to discuss other funding options, such as GI Bill, 
scholarships or financial aid.  Going forward, TA policy will balance 
availability of finite resources and ensure continued access to TA and NCPACE 
for all eligible Sailors.

3.  TA is intended to elevate the academic level of Service Members.
Today, we have some Sailors pursuing multiple degrees and others who take 
multiple courses without completing a degree.  Use of TA must focus on degree 
completion.  In addition, we have many very junior Sailors maxing out TA 
usage at a time in their Navy career when they should be focused on 
warfighting and warfare qualifications.  While committed to allowing Sailors 
to pursue off-duty education, operational readiness is the top priority.  The 
Navy is, first and foremost, a warfighting organization.  We need qualified 
and proficient warfighters.

4.  Effective 1 October 2019 the following controls go into effect:
    a.  All enlisted personnel and officers must have a minimum of two years 
of service before becoming eligible to use TA or NCPACE Instructor Led or 
Distance Learning (DL) courses.  This may not be waived.
    b.  TA and NCPACE DL funding is capped at twelve semester hours (or 
equivalent quarter hours) per fiscal year.
    c.  TA and NCPACE DL funding is capped at 120 semester hours (or 
equivalent quarter hours) in a career.  This excludes courses taken to 
complete a high school diploma.

5.  Commanding officers and officers in charge have the final say in 
approving TA and are encouraged to actively manage usage.  First assignments 
are challenging and rigorous.  Commands should establish benchmark 
qualifications that first-term Sailors must earn prior to using TA or NCPACE.  
These may include, but are not limited to damage control, maintenance, 
primary warfare, watch-station or other qualifications depending upon command 
mission.  Commanding officers and officers in charge should also consider 
operational tempo before approving off-duty education.

6.  Sailors have several additional personal and professional development 
opportunities available to offset this temporary non- availability of TA. 
They can be accessed via MyNavy Portal at https://my.navy.mil/quick-
links.html.

7.  For questions regarding eligibility, degree plans or other education 
funding options, contact Navy College Virtual Education Center at (877)838-
1659/DSN 492-4684 or via MyNavy Portal at https://my.navy.mil/quick-
links.html.

8.  For questions concerning TA or NCPACE policy, contact Mr. Jim Johnson at 
(703)604-5256/DSN 664 or james.p.johnson(at)navy.mil.

9.  This NAVADMIN will remain in effect until superseded or canceled, 
whichever occurs first.

10.  Released by Vice Admiral R. P. Burke, N1.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//

