UNCLASSIFIED
ROUTINE
R 031306Z AUG 16
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC
BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 170/16

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N3N5/JUL//

SUBJ/ACADEMIC YEAR 2017-2018 FEDERAL EXECUTIVE FELLOWSHIP, U.S. NAVY HUDSON 
FELLOWSHIP, AND SECRETARY OF DEFENSE CORPORATE FELLOWS PROGRAM CALL FOR 
APPLICATIONS//

REF/A/DOC/CNO/22JUN2010//
REF/B/DOC/CNO/07JAN2015//
REF/C/DOC/N3N5/10JUN2016//
REF/D/DOC/CNO/141554ZJAN15//
NARR/Ref A is OPNAVINST 1500.72G, Navy Politico-Military Fellowship, Graduate 
Education Programs, and Community Sponsorship.
Ref B is OPNAVINST 1520.23C, Graduate Education. Ref C is the approved slate 
of AY2017-2018 and 2018-19 FEF institutions. Ref D is NAVADMIN 011/15, 
Establishment of the Naval Strategy Subspecialty 230X.//

RMKS/1.  This is a call for applications for the Academic Year 2017-2018 
(AY17-18) Federal Executive Fellowship (FEF), U.S. Navy Hudson Fellowship, 
and the Secretary of Defense Corporate Fellowship (SDCFP) Programs. The FEF 
program and the Hudson Fellowship are the Navy's primary means to develop 
naval strategists through an exposure tour with leading policy and academic 
institutions. The SDCFP provides a venue for exceptional officers to 
experience innovative business practices and incorporate those best practices 
into the Navy through subsequent tours.

2.  Navy Federal Executive Fellowship (FEF) Program. The FEF Program provides 
selected officers an opportunity to improve their understanding of the 
national security decision-making process through assignment to world-class 
research organizations and academic institutions. Fellows will serve follow-
on tours in a number of critical strategy and policy, national security 
decision-making, and international engagement billets on major Joint and Navy 
staffs.
    a. Eligibility. Active duty O4-O6 Unrestricted Line (URL) and Restricted 
Line (RL) officers in designators 1710, 1810, 1820, and 1830 are eligible to 
apply.
    b. Program specifics. Thirteen officers will be selected for AY17-18 
fellowships, which begins in August 2017 following a two-week orientation in 
the Pentagon. The 13 institutions are:

       1) Atlantic Council, Washington, D.C.
       2) Brookings Institution, Washington, D.C.
       3) Center for a New American Security (CNAS),
          Washington, D.C.
       4) Center for Strategic and Budgetary Assessments
          (CSBA), Washington, D.C.
       5) Center for Strategic and International Studies
          (CSIS), Washington, D.C.**
       6) Chicago Council on Global Affairs, Chicago, Il
       7) Harvard University,  John F. Kennedy School of
          Government, Cambridge, MA
       8) Johns Hopkins University Applied Physics Laboratory
          (JHU APL), Laurel, MD
       9) Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT), Security
          Studies Program, Cambridge, MA
       10) RAND Corporation, Arlington, VA
       11) Stanford University, Hoover Institution on War,
           Revolution, and Peace, Stanford, CA
       12) Stimson Center, Washington, D.C.
       13) Tufts University, the Fletcher School of Law and
           Diplomacy, Medford, MA

** The CSIS fellow will also be an adjunct fellow for the US Naval
Institute (USNI), Annapolis, MD

    c. Per references (a) and (d), URL officers who complete a FEF tour will 
receive the 2300S Naval Strategy subspecialty and the 240 Additional 
Qualification Designation (AQD) codes. Restricted Line officers will receive 
the 2000S National Security Studies subspecialty and the 240 AQD codes.
    d. Service obligation. Per reference (a), FEF graduates incur a service 
obligation three times (3x) the number of months of the fellowship. FEF tours 
are normally 10-12 months in length, depending on institution requirements. 
FEF graduates will serve at least one reutilization tour in a validated naval 
strategist billet in a major N5 or J5 staff billet as soon as possible, but 
not later than the second subsequent shore tour. Some officers may serve in 
multiple strategy positions after the fellowship program, subject to career 
timing and on a not-to-interfere basis with their chosen warfighting 
specialty.

3.  U.S. Navy Hudson Fellowship, University of Oxford, UK. Typically hosted 
through Oxfords St. Anthonys College, the Hudson Fellow will attend the 
Changing Character of War (CCW) program, led by the History Faculty at 
Oxford. CCW brings together representatives of the British Armed Services, 
Government, and multinational organizations to provide practical knowledge in 
the interdisciplinary study of war and armed conflict.
    a.  Eligibility. Active duty O5-O6 URL and RL officers in designators 
1710, 1810, 1820, and 1830 are eligible to apply.
    b.  Program Specifics. One (1) officer will be selected for AY 2017-
2018.The fellowship will begin in August 2017. In addition to the U.S. Navy's 
Selection Board, a final screening and approval by the University of Oxford 
Governing Board is required. Applicants must include a 2-page research 
proposal with their applications. The Oxford research proposal template can 
be found at the Naval Personnel Command's website under Graduate Education
Programs (PERS-440), http://www.public.navy.mil/bupers-npc/officer/Detailing/ 
educationplacement/Pages/default.aspx.
    c.  Per references (a) and (d), URL officers who complete this program 
will receive the 2300S subspecialty and the 240 AQD codes. RL officers will 
receive the 2000S subspecialty and the 240 AQD codes.
    d.  Service obligation. Per reference (a), Hudson fellowship graduates 
incur a service obligation that is three times (3x) the number of months of 
the fellowship. Hudson fellowship tours are normally 10-12 months in length. 
The Hudson Fellow will serve at least one reutilization tour in a validated 
naval strategist billet in a major N5 or J5 staff billet as soon as possible, 
but not later than the second subsequent shore tour. Some officers may serve 
in multiple strategy positions after the fellowship program, subject to 
career timing and on a not-to-interfere basis with their chosen warfighting 
specialty.

4.  Secretary of Defense Corporate Fellowship Program (SDCFP). This program 
provides a venue for exceptional officers to experience innovative business 
practices. Military fellows from each of the Services are paired with senior 
executives in various corporations known for their willingness to challenge 
and adapt their business practices.
    a.  Eligibility. All active duty O5-O6 officers are eligible.
    b.  Program specifics. Up to two (2) Navy officers will be selected for 
AY17-18. Fellowships will begin in July 2017. Past fellows were assigned to 
corporations such as AMGEN, Boeing, CNN, CISCO, DuPont, FEDEX, Honeywell, 
IBM, Merck, Microsoft, Pfizer, Raytheon, and 3M.
    c.  Officers who complete this program will receive the 2000S 
subspecialty code. More details regarding SDCFP can be found at
http://dcmo.defense.gov/corporate-fellows-program/.
    d.  Service obligation. Per reference (b), fellowship graduates incur a 
service obligation that is three times (3x) the number of months of the 
fellowship. SDCFP tours are normally 10-12 months in length, depending on 
corporate requirements.
    e.  Reutilization. One of the two selected Fellows will be assigned a 1 
year follow-on tour at the Defense Business Board with the Office of the 
Secretary of Defense in the National Capitol Region. The non-selected Fellow 
should expect follow-on assignment to positions involved in strategic 
management issues related to innovation and transformation

5.  Application Procedures and Timeline.
    a.  Officers are encouraged to apply to those fellowships for which they 
are eligible. A single application for multiple programs is acceptable; 
annotate which programs you are applying for in the subject line.
    b.  Applications require a curriculum vitae, biography, and endorsement 
letters from your Commanding Officer and detailer. Use reference (a), 
enclosure 1, for sample applications.
    c.  Interested officers should submit applications via email to the 
NAVPERSCOM and OPNAV POCs listed at the end of this NAVADMIN.  Prior to 
submission, ensure the electronic copies are clear, legible, and properly 
endorsed.
    d.  Applications are due to Navy Personnel Command NLT 30 September 2016. 
The selection board will convene in early November 2016 and results will be 
announced via NAVADMIN in December 2016.

6.  Contact the POCs with any application questions:
    a.  OPNAV: LCDR Kori Levy-Minzie (N515); DSN 260-4781 or COMM 571-256-
4781; Email: kori.levyminzie(at)navy.mil.
    b.  NAVPERSCOM: PERS-440_submit.fct(at)navy.mil.

7.  Released by Vice Admiral J. C. Aquilino, Deputy Chief of Naval Operations 
for Operations, Plans and Strategy (N3/N5)//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
