UNCLASSIFIED//

ROUTINE

R 241534Z SEP 18

FM CNO WASHINGTON DC

TO NAVADMIN

INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC

BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 237/18

PASS TO OFFICE CODES:
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N2N6//
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N2N6//

SUBJ/OCTOBER CYBERSECURITY AWARENESS MONTH//

RMKS/1. October is National Cybersecurity Awareness Month.  While 
Cybersecurity is a priority across the year, October is the month where 
protection of Cyber activities will receive exceptional attention.  The Cyber 
threat touches nearly all aspects of our warfighting ability from our 
traditional network to our operational technology such as hull, mechanical, 
and electrical and combat systems.  Cybersecurity is an area where all 
sailors "man the equipment" and deliberate or unintended actions by one or a 
few can introduce real vulnerabilities for all.

2.  During October we will focus on Cybersecurity and protection of the Navy 
information platform (networks).  We need a continuous, collective 24-7 focus 
on ensuring everyone understands the seriousness of the Cyber threats facing 
the Navy and what they can personally do to keep Navy information and 
capabilities secure.

3.  All commands will incorporate training and increase attention to 
maintaining vigilance in Cybersecurity and protecting our information 
platform during October and will reinforce these messages as a leadership 
priority.  To assist in your training, we will release social media content 
with a different theme for each of the five weeks of the month:  Cyber 
Intrusion:  A Threat to National Security; Are You Vulnerable? Know the 
Anatomy of a Cyber Intrusion; The Navy:  Enhancing Protection While 
Increasing Resiliency; Protecting Your Shipmates by Protecting Yourself; 
Getting from Vulnerable to Cyber Secure.  Content will be posted to 
https://www.navy.mil/local/cyberawareness/ and updates will also be provided 
in the Navy Plan of the Day at https://www.navy.mil /planOfDay.asp.  The 
intent of the campaign is to sustain a culture where Cybersecurity discipline 
is a high priority and a daily habit so the Navy remains vigilant against 
persistent Cyber threats.

4.  The Department of Homeland Security (DHS) also announced their themes for 
the National Cybersecurity Awareness Month effort.
Additional information and resources on the DHS campaign can be found at:  
https://www.dhs.gov/national-cyber-security-awareness
-month.  Commands are encouraged to incorporate the outstanding DHS products 
in their internal Cybersecurity training.

5.  Just like damage control, we depend on you to make Cybersecurity a 
priority.  Whenever you log onto a Navy network or system, you are in the 
Cyber battlespace.  Your commitment to Cybersecurity will protect the Navy 
and contribute to our winning the Cyber fight. I appreciate your efforts to 
keep the Navy safe.

6.  Released by VADM Matthew J. Kohler, Deputy Chief of Naval Operations for 
Information Warfare, OPNAV N2N6.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//

