UNCLASSIFIED

ROUTINE

R 082133Z SEP 16

FM CNO WASHINGTON DC

TO NAVADMIN

INFO SECNAV WASHINGTON DC
CMC WASHINGTON DC

BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 198/16

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/DNS/SEP//

SUBJ/GUIDANCE FOR CONDUCTING A FINANCIAL IMPROVEMENT AND AUDIT READINESS 
(FIAR)VERIFICATION AND REPORTING OF ALL DEPARTMENT OF THE NAVY UNITS HAVING 
REPORTING CUSTODY OF AIRCRAFT, ENGINES AND MODULES//

REF/A/DOC/DODINST 5000.64/19MAY2011//

AMPN/REF A IS DOD INSTRUCTION FOR ACCOUNTABILITY AND MANAGEMENT OF DOD 
EQUIPMENT AND OTHER ACCOUNTABLE PROPERTY//

RMKS/1.  In support of the 2016 Financial Improvement and Audit Readiness 
(FIAR), an inventory data validation of the DECKPLATE system must be 
conducted by all units of the Department of Navy (DON).  Units are 
responsible for conducting a 100% physical inventory of aircraft (class 3 to 
class 5), engines, and uninstalled modules IAW reference (a).  All findings 
shall be reported to OPNAV N980L via email to the following address:
OPNAV_N98_inventory_records or OPNAV_N98_inventory_records.fct @navy.mil.

2.  The physical inventory is to be conducted beginning from release of this 
message and must be concluded by 14 September 2016.  All certified inventory 
count sheets, to include findings must be submitted by 14 September 2016.

3.  The inventory will only be conducted on those aircraft, engines, and 
modules that are part of the active and inactive inventory only.  Aircraft, 
engines, and modules that are stricken from the inventory shall not be 
inventoried.

4.  All procedures and documents for conducting the physical inventory of 
aircraft, engines, and uninstalled modules can be downloaded from 
https://prdwebserv9.navair.navy.mil
/physicalinventory.cfm.  Procedures were posted as Adobe Acrobat files on 1 
September 2016, 0800 EST.

5.  Any clarification or exceptions to this guidance shall be directed to Mr. 
James Foreman, james.w.foreman@navy.mil,703-693-6531 DSN 223-6531 or Mr. Mac 
Talbert, mac.talbert.ctr@navy.mil, 703-695-8511 DSN 225-8511 from the Office 
of Director, Air Warfare, Logistics & Readiness branch, OPNAV N980L.

6.  Release authorized by Mr. Brian J. Persons, Vice Director, Navy Staff.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
