UNCLASSIFIED
ROUTINE
R 041557Z FEB 16
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC
BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 026/16

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHNGTON DC/N2N6/JAN//

SUBJ/GUIDANCE FOR MIGRATION FROM ALL LEGACY VERSIONS OF WINDOWS OPERATING 
SYSTEMS TO WINDOWS 10

REF/A/MSG/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N2N6/201649ZAPR15/NAVADMIN 091/15//
REF/B/LTR/DOD CIO WASHINGTON DC/20NOV15//
NARR/REFERENCE (A) IS NAVADMIN 091/15 (PLANNING AND GUIDANCE FOR MIGRATION 
FROM MICROSOFT WINDOWS 7 AND ALL PRIOR VERSIONS OF WINDOWS OPERATING 
SYSTEMS). REFERENCE (B) ESTABLISHES DOD CIO INTENT FOR ALL SERVICE COMPONENTS 
TO EXECUTE A PLAN TO MIGRATE ALL LEGACY VERSIONS OF WINDOWS OPERATING SYSTEMS 
TO WINDOWS 10 BY 31 JANUARY 2017
POC/CRICCHIO/GS15/OPNAV N2N6BC1/-/TEL:  571-256-8510/EMAIL:
MICHAEL.CRICCHIO1(AT)NAVY.MIL//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN cancels and supersedes reference (a) and promulgates 
Windows 10 guidance outlined in reference (b).  Resource Sponsors and Program 
Management Offices shall plan for a timely migration from all DOD Information 
Systems currently Using Microsoft Operating Systems (OS) to the Windows 10 
Secure Host Baseline (SHB) starting 31 January 2016 with target compliance 
for all applicable assets by 31 January 2017.

2.  Program Executive Office, Program Manager-Air, and Program Manager-
Warfare responsible for shore based information technology (IT) assets are 
directed to develop execution plans for migration;
   (a) All Navy desktops, laptops, and smartphones (except iPads and iPhones) 
operating on the following networks:
      (1) Next Generation Enterprise Network (NGEN).
      (2) Outside the Continental United States Navy Enterprise Network (One-
NET).
      (3) All Top Secret/Sensitive Compartment Information (TS/SCI) networks.
      (4) Navy legacy accepted networks, including the Defense Research and 
Engineering Network (as appropriate).
   (b) All defense business systems, commercial and government off-the-shelf 
applications operating on NGEN, One Net or TS/SCI networks should be tested 
and upgraded to Windows 10 to operate in a Windows 10 SHB environment.

3.  The Defense Information Systems Agency and National Security Agency co-
lead a Joint Windows 10 SHB Working Group to prepare a Windows 10 standard 
desktop configuration to comply with the Department of Defense (DoD) Security 
Technical Implementation Guides and will include secure settings for other 
commercial software currently in use across DoD.  The Windows 10 SHB content 
is currently available on Defense Information System Agency Information 
Assurance Support Environment Portal Site, at 
http://disa.deps.mil/ext/cop/iase/dod-images/pages/index.aspx.

4.  For new desktops, laptops, authorized tablets, and other mobile computing 
devices (except iPads and iPhones) Window 10 SHB is the only authorized 
operating system.  Information Technology Procurement Requests submitted for 
desktops, laptops etc., which include Windows 7 or Windows 8.0/8.1 in the 
specifications, will be returned to the submitting organization with 
recommendation that any hardware computing request must be configured to 
operate using Windows 10.

5.  Project managers responsible for afloat IT assets, including platform and 
weapon systems IT, operating in the Consolidated Afloat Network Enterprise 
Service (CANES) environment shall plan to migrate to Windows 10 SHB.  All 
CANES OS fielding plans must be adjusted to meet this requirement.  Remaining 
Integrated Shipboard Network System and platform centric networks associated 
with USS SAN ANTONIO class vessel Common Operating Environment, Littoral 
Combat Ship class vessel Total Ship Computing Environment, and USS ZUMWALT 
class vessel Total Ship Computing environments shall plan for Windows 10 SHB 
migration in the same manner as applicable.

6.  Department of the Navy, Deputy Chief Information Officer (DDCIO (N)) will 
have a limited 12-month waiver/Plan of Action and Milestones (POA&M) approval 
authority regarding Windows 10 SHB implementation plans.  Waiver requests 
must include a POA&M when submitted to DDCIO (N).  Submissions will be 
reviewed on a case by case basis for approval up to 12 months beyond the 31 
January 2017 compliance date.  Any waiver/POAM request received that exceeds 
the 12 months limit will be forwarded to the Department of Defense Chief 
Information Officer for adjudication.  The DDCIO (N) will provide guidance 
for submission and format of waiver requests via separate correspondence.

7.  Funding including network or system software/hardware upgrades and 
testing to accommodate Windows 10 SBH migration is the responsibility of the 
Resource Sponsors and the designated Program Managers.

8.  Released by VADM Ted N. Branch, Deputy Chief of Naval Operations for 
Information Warfare, OPNAV N2N6.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
