UNCLASSIFIED//
ROUTINE
R 231513Z FEB 15 PSN 715803H24
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC
BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 043/15

SUBJ/GUIDANCE FOR USING PAY AND PERSONNEL STANDARD OPERATING PROCEDURES//

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/FEB//

RMKS/1.  Navy Personnel Command (NPC) has produced and published Standard 
Operating Procedures (SOP) for over 30 different personnel and pay processes.  
Effective immediately, all Navy commands are directed to use the SOPs when 
performing pay and personnel transactions.  Doing so ensures that pay and 
personnel transactions conducted on behalf of service members are completed 
accurately, on time, and in accordance with the current policy.

2.  The SOPs are published on the Manpower, Personnel, Training and Education 
portal.  Any user with a Common Access Card may access the system.  Be sure 
to select the Department of Defense e-mail certificate when logging into the 
portal.
    a.  SOPs provide the Navy with a common process for successful completion 
of transactions.  SOPs begin and end with the service member, linking users * 
including command leadership, Command Pay and Personnel Administrative 
Support System (PASS) Coordinator (CPC), Command Career Counselor, Clerk, 
Supervisor, etc. to references, forms, online resources, user aids and help.
Detailed steps, supported by a process flow diagram, provide all participants 
complete transparency into required actions for each user role.
    b.  Pay SOPs are located at:
https://mpte.portal.navy.mil/sites/NPC/pers2/Lists/Standard%20Operating%20Pro
cedures/PaySOPs.aspx.
    c.  Personnel SOPs are located at 
https://mpte.portal.navy.mil/sites/NPC/pers2/Lists/Standard%20Operating%20Pro
cedures/PersonnelSOPs.aspx.

3.  Pay and Personnel Services * Best Practices.
    a.  CPC.  MILPERSMAN Article 1000-021 requires all commands supported by 
a Personnel Support Detachment (PSD) to designate a CPC in writing.  
Assigning an effective and proactive CPC (and secondary CPC) is as critical 
as other command collateral duties.  Lack of support for and from the CPC is 
likely to result in inconsistent customer service and Sailor support that can 
have a direct impact on accurate pay and personnel records.
    b.  CPC Training.  Your PSD is required to conduct monthly CPC training.  
These sessions provide information about the resources available to assist 
CPCs in performing their duties, deliver training on specific personnel and 
pay topics, and present the opportunity to address local issues related to 
the shared responsibility of providing accurate personnel and pay support for 
service members.
    c.  CPC Resources.  The NPC website offers important information and 
resources for CPCs.  Go to the CPC Resources website located at 
http://www.public.navy.mil/bupers-
npc/support/paypers/cpcresources/Pages/default2.aspx.  For the majority of 
pay and personnel transactions, business between PSDs and commands should be 
conducted using electronic document transmission technology, encrypted e-
mail, and web applications.
    d.  Communication.  The partnership of service member, command, and PSD 
ensures accurate pay for service members, and accurate personnel records 
required by the Navy to support advancement determination, selection for 
retention or special programs, and/or job assignment.  Service members must 
take necessary actions to verify their records are current, accurate and 
complete.  Command leaders, in coordination with the supporting PSD, must 
assist service members in this effort.  To ensure all partners are providing 
the pay and personnel services that service members deserve, commanding 
officers and officers in charge (OIC) are encouraged and invited to meet with 
their supporting PSD OIC or Director routinely, and for any reason.  Should 
issues or concerns arise that cannot be resolved locally, contact the 
Commanding Officer, Navy Pay and Personnel Support Center (NPPSC) (PERS-23) 
using the point of contact information provided below. Recommendations for 
improved processes should be forwarded, as well.

4.  Using Pay and Personnel SOPs, assigning an effective CPC, communicating 
with the PSD, and forwarding recommendations and concerns through the chain 
of command all contribute to improved pay and personnel support services for 
all hands.

5.  Point of contact is CAPT Karen Vigneron, Commanding Officer, NPPSC at 
(901) 874-4639/DSN 882 or via e-mail at karen.vigneron(at)navy.mil.

6.  This NAVADMIN will remain in effect until superseded or canceled, 
whichever occurs first.

7.  Released by Vice Admiral W. F. Moran, N1.//

BT
#9616
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
