UNCLASSIFIED
ROUTINE
R 012049Z MAY 17
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 105/17

SUBJ/IMPLEMENTATION OF THE DEPARTMENT OF NAVY TASKS, RECORDS, AND 
CONSOLIDATED KNOWLEDGE ENTERPRISE REPOSITORY FOR TASK MANAGEMENT//

MSGID/GENADMIN//
POC/Navy DON TRACKER points of contact:
Implementation/Phase-In - CDR Mark Walstead,
mark.walstead(at)navy.mil.
Data Migration - LCDR Jerardo Reyna, jerardo.reyna(at)navy.mil and 
LCDR Christopher Mullen, christopher.mullen(at)navy.mil.
Congressional Implementation - Mrs. Suzanne Gonzales,
suzanne.gonzales1(at)navy.mil//

REF/A/DOC/DON CIO WASHINGTON DC/20140410
NARR/REF A IS DON CIO MEMO, DEPARTMENT OF THE NAVY TASK AND RECORDS
MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS.//

RMKS/1.  Purpose.  This NAVADMIN announces the revised implementation plan 
for the task management (TM) function of Department of the Navy (DON) 
Tasking, Records and Consolidated Knowledge Enterprise Repository (TRACKER) 
for the OPNAV Staff and Echelon II Commands, per REF A. DON TRACKER can be 
accessed at https://dontracker.navy.mil.

2.  General.  DON TRACKER is a single enterprise solution to replace multiple 
legacy Department-wide TM and records management (RM) applications in order 
to streamline digital tasking and recordkeeping at a lower cost across the 
Secretariat, U.S. Navy, and U.S. Marine Corps.  This plan initially affects 
OPNAV and commands currently using the NIPR TV5 task management system, and 
will eventually impact those using Congressional Information Management 
System (CIMS) once it is transitioned to DON TRACKER.

3.  Training.  The training CONOPS is based on the train-the-trainer 
methodology.  An initial round of contractor provided DON TRACKER training 
concluded 30 September 2016, 466 members received training. An updated 
schedule for contractor provided training will be promulgated through the DON 
TRACKER Transition Portal at 
https://portal.secnav.navy.mil/orgs/OPNAV/COP/TRACK.  If not already 
complete, Commands should identify their primary "power users", capable of 
providing training to other personnel within their organizations, to attend 
the upcoming training sessions being held in the NCR, Norfolk, San Diego, 
Hawaii, and Naples, IT.  A variety of webinars will also be added to the 
training regimen.  Organizations shall develop internal protocols for the 
training of members within their organizations; fully utilizing the personnel 
who will or have received contractor and Program Office (PMW-240) provided 
face-to-face training.  Training material, such as an updated User Manual and 
Instructional Videos are in development and will be available soon on the DON 
TRACKER website and the DON Tracker Transition Portal.

4.  Scope.  DON TRACKER will provide the Navy an effective TM system and lays 
the foundation for follow-on RM compliance.  Per REF A, DON TRACKER will 
become the enterprise solution for all DON TM and RM and no new investment 
should be made in TM and RM systems.  The Marine Corps began using NIPR DON 
Tracker in April 2016 and the Office of the Secretary of the Navy (SECNAV) 
and the Chief of Naval Operations (OPNAV) will transition on 8 May 2017.  
Secret Internet Protocol (SIPR) DON TRACKER implementation is planned for 
FY18 and transition plans will be promulgated SEPCOR.

5.  Deployment.  OPNAV will utilize a phased approach for the deployment of 
DON TRACKER.  It is recommended that all Commands ensure they have a minimum 
of one user with "Task Coordinator" privileges assigned to their front 
offices and subordinate organizations.  DON TRACKER will not allow tasking to 
organizations without at least one Task Coordinator assigned to accept and 
respond to the task.  Beginning 8 May 2017, all new tasks originating in the 
SECNAV Office will be promulgated in DON TRACKER. Director, Navy Staff (DNS) 
will begin to issue taskers via DON TRACKER on a limited basis to allow OPNAV 
and Echelon II commands to execute a controlled transition to DON TRACKER.  
This transition period will end on or about 12 June 2017 and "Full 
Implementation" will be complete. At this point all new tasks will be 
submitted through DON TRACKER.

6.  Sundown of TV5.  After Full Implementation all new tasks must be 
initiated and processed in DON TRACKER.  This date is subject to change and 
any changes will be promulgated through info only tasks in TV5 and/or DON 
TRACKER.  If a task is assigned or delegated via DON TRACKER, the response 
must be submitted via DON TRACKER.  The period between Full Implementation 
and 31 December 2017 will be referred to as the "Sundown Phase".  During the 
Sundown Phase, users may continue to work and complete existing TV5 tasks 
with suspense dates that fall within the Sundown Phase.  Tasks with suspense 
dates outside of the Sundown Phase will need to be manually entered into DON 
TRACKER and marked complete in TV5 with a comment added that the tasker has 
been migrated to a DON TRACKER tasker number.  On 1 January 2018, TV5 will be 
set to read only to support access to archive data while data is migrated to 
DON TRACKER.

7.  Data Migration for TV5.  All TV5 files (tasks, document reviews, 
responses) closed and archived on or before 8 May 2017 will be migrated to 
DON TRACKER for Initial Operating Capability (IOC).  TV5 tasks closed between 
8 May 2017 and 31 December 2017 will be migrated to DON TRACKER in early 
2018.  TV5 will remain operational in read only for archive access until data 
is satisfactorily migrated to DON TRACKER.

8.  Transition Coordinators.  A list of OPNAV and Echelon II Transition 
Coordinators are located on the DON TRACKER Transition Portal. If unable to 
identify your coordinator, please contact CDR Mark Walstead.

9.  CIMS Transition and Data Migration.  Details for the transition and data 
migration from CIMS to DON TRACKER will be promulgated through the DON 
TRACKER Transition Portal and SEPCOR.

10.  DON TRACKER Customer Support.  Customers will initiate service requests 
for technical assistance via the Navy 311 Help Desk at 1-855-NAVY-311.  TV5 
customer support can be reached at 703-695-9093 and will remain in place 
until after transition to SIPR DON TRACKER estimated for late FY18.

11.  Updated NIPR DON TRACKER Transition Schedule (supplement to NAVADMIN 
195/16).  24 Apr - 23 Jun (notional) - Contractor Provided Training (NCR, 
Norfolk, San Diego, Hawaii, and Naples, IT) 7 Apr - 8 May - TV5 Users Self 
Register into Live Environment 8 May - 12 Jun - DNS-1 Coordinated Phase-In of 
NIPR DON TRACKER Tasks 12 Jun - 31 Dec - Sundown of NIPR TV5.  Open tasks 
with due dates before 31 December 2017 are allowed to remain in TV5 until 
completion.  Tasks with due dates past 31 December 2017 must be marked 
complete and manually entered into DON TRACKER.

12.  Licenses.  Initially, each organization was allotted the same number of 
licenses as they have current TV5 users.  As license demand increases, 
license requests will be evaluated and approved in accordance with a license 
management plan currently under development.  Total license availability to 
DNS for each Fiscal Year is capped and based on a negotiated contract with 
PMW-240 and the license provider.

13.  Applicability.  This NAVADMIN is applicable to commands currently using 
TV5 as their primary Task Management Solution.

14.  Release authorized by VADM J. G. FOGGO, Director, Navy Staff.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
