UNCLASSIFIED
ROUTINE
R 271713Z APR 16
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC
BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 093/16

MSGID/NAVADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/DNS/APR//

SUBJ/NAVY ATTENDANCE AT THE 16 - 18 MAY 2016 NAVY LEAGUE OF THE UNITED STATES 
(NLUS) SEA-AIR-SPACE EXPOSITION//

REF/A/LTR/UNSECNAV/21APR16/NOTAL//
REF/B/DOC/DON OGC/16MAR16//
REF/C/DOC/DOD/5500.07-R/17NOV2011//
REF/D/LTR/DON/AA/28JAN16/NOTAL//
NARR/REF A IS SECNAV CONFERENCE APPROVAL MEMORANDUM.  REF B IS OGC (ETHICS) 
MEMO CONCERNING NAVY PARTICIPATION IN 2016 SEA AIR SPACE EXPOSITION.  REF C 
IS DOD PUBLICATION 5500.07-R JOINT ETHICS REGULATION.  REF D IS DON/AA 
CONFERENCE HOSTING APPROVAL FOR NAVY FST.//

RMKS/1.  NLUS will hold its annual Sea-Air-Space (SAS) Exposition 16 - 18 May 
at the Gaylord National Resort and Conference Center, National Harbor, MD.  
SAS provides a valuable platform for the professional development of 
Department of the Navy personnel on the latest developments in naval warfare, 
as well as a valuable opportunity for Navy engagement with representatives 
from a broad cross section of government, industry, and academia.

2.  Confirmed speakers include the Secretary of Defense, Secretary of the 
Navy, Assistant Secretary of Defense (AT&L), Assistant Secretary of the Navy 
(RD&A), Chief of Naval Operations, Commandant of the Marine Corps, Commandant 
of the Coast Guard, Vice Commandant of the Coast Guard, Deputy Commandant of 
the Marine Corps and many other senior officer and enlisted speakers.  
Additionally, many international delegations will be in attendance at SAS, 
including several international Heads of Navy (HON).  A full list of speakers 
and more information on international representation is at
www.seaairspace.org.

3.  The Director, Navy Staff has determined SAS 2016 travel by Navy Personnel 
to be consistent with mission essential policy guidance. Per reference (a),  
limited use of government funds to attend SAS 2016 is approved. The following 
restrictions apply:
    a.  Attendance is authorized for local participants at no cost to the 
government.
    b.  All personnel desiring to attend the exhibition in a funded TAD 
status must have received conference attendance approval per reference (a).
    c.  NLUS has offered free attendance at the below nine events to all 
military personnel. Per reference (b), this free attendance does not 
constitute a gift for purposes of applicable government ethics regulations, 
and therefore may be accepted by all military personnel.
        (1) Opening ceremonies and plenary sessions
        (2) Sea Services luncheon
        (3) Sea-Air-Space luncheon
        (4) Sea-Air-Space reception and banquet
        (5) Congressional breakfast
        (6) Secretary of the Navy luncheon
        (7) International maritime reception
        (8) Shuttle bus transportation to the conference site
        (9) Closing ceremonies
    d.  The Cohen Group breakfast is a "by invitation" event. Given the broad 
cross section of individuals from government, academia, and industry expected 
to attend, reference (b) contains a "Widely Attended Gathering" (WAG) 
determination for the event.  This WAG determination allows individual Navy 
Personnel to accept free attendance from NLUS to this event only after 
obtaining a determination from their supervisor and ethics counselor that 
their attendance is in the interest of the Department of the Navy.
    e.  Attendees and travel authorizing officials must be mindful of the 
need to be good stewards of taxpayer dollars. Permissive TAD orders may be 
issued in accordance with Navy policy. Service members attending on 
permissive TAD orders will be responsible for the expenses associated with 
their attendance.
    f.  All Navy participation in SAS 2016 shall be consistent with reference 
(c).

4.  Registration information is available on the SAS website at
www.seaairspace.org. There is no charge to attend the exposition for Navy 
qualified attendees, which include:
    a.  Invited guests of the Navy League
    b.  Active duty and reserve U.S. military
    c.  Retired U.S. Navy personnel
    d.  U.S. federal, state and local government employees
    e.  NLUS Members

5.  DoN Forum for Small Business Innovation Research (SBIR)/Small Business 
Technology Transfer (STTR) Transition (FST).  Approved under reference (d), 
this year's FST is co-located with SAS.  FST is the Navy's largest small 
business technology showcase.  SAS registrants can enter the FST, but 
registration is encouraged.  Registration and more information are available 
at www.navyfst.com.

6.  Within the national capital region, transportation to SAS 2016 will be 
available in the Arlington area from the Pentagon, Naval Support Facility, 
Washington Navy Yard, Office of Naval Research, Naval Research Laboratory, 
Joint Base Anacostia-Bolling, Crystal City, Joint Base Andrews, Office of 
Naval Intelligence, and Coast Guard Headquarters. Transportation will also be 
available from Patuxent River in Maryland, and Dahlgren and Quantico in 
Virginia. More information and bus schedules are available at 
www.seaairspace.org.

7.  Questions regarding SAS 2016 should be directed to the NLUS at
(703) 312-1587, or visit www.seaairspace.org.

8.  Released by Vice Admiral R. L. Thomas, Director, Navy Staff.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
