UNCLASSIFIED
ROUTINE
R 121524Z SEP 16
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC
BT
UNCLAS
PASS TO OFFICE CODES:
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//

NAVADMIN 202/16

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/SEP//

SUBJ/FY-17 ENLISTED TO MEDICAL DEGREE PREPARATORY PROGRAM ANNNOUNCEMENT//

REF/A/DOC/BUMED/7MAY15//
AMPN/REF A IS BUMEDINST 1500.31, UNIFORMED SERVICES UNIVERSITY OF THE HEALTH 
SCIENCES ENLISTED TO MEDICAL DEGREE PREPARATORY PROGRAM.//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN solicits applications and provides guidance for the 
FY-17 Enlisted to Medical Degree Preparatory Program (EMDP2).

2.  The EMDP2 is a 2-year undergraduate education program open to enlisted 
personnel of all ratings who meet eligibility requirements per reference (a).  
The EMDP2 is a partnership between the Uniformed Services University (USU) 
and the armed services to provide an opportunity for highly-motivated, 
academically promising enlisted Service Members.  The EMDP2 consists of 
intensive coursework, preparation, and mentoring to prepare students for 
application to medical school.  Upon completion of the program, successful 
students will be competitive for acceptance to U.S. medical schools.

3.  Selectees are assigned to the USU for a 24-month period. Individuals 
selected for the EMDP2 program will remain on active duty while completing 
course work and receive pay, allowances, benefits, and privileges of current 
pay grade. Selectees will receive permanent change of station orders to USU.  
All school expenses (i.e., books, tuition, labs, etc.) will be paid by USU 
for the entire length of the course.

4.  Deadline for submission of applications for FY-17 enrollment is 1 
November 2016.  Application packages must be postmarked on or before the 
deadline date.  No additional documents can be added after this date.  The 
selection board will convene in December 2016.  All application requirements 
are specified in reference (a) which can be found at
https://www.usuhs.edu/emdp2, http://www.med.navy.mil/, and 
http//www.public.navy.mil.

5.  Strict adherence to package submission requirements will be a primary 
factor for selection and no waivers will be granted.  The application is a 
reflection of the applicant. Applicants must review their packages in their 
entirety before submitting.  A minimum score of Good on the latest physical 
fitness assessment and qualifying Scholastic Assessment Test/American College 
Test scores are required.

6.  This NAVADMIN does not modify any previous guidance contained in 
reference (a) regarding selective reenlistment bonus.

7.  Applicants assigned to a nuclear training command or who hold a nuclear 
Navy enlisted classification (335X, 336X, 338X, 339X) and are applying for 
the FY-17 EMDP2 selection board must obtain conditional release from nuclear 
field duty prior to submitting their application for consideration for the 
FY-17 board per NAVADMIN 070/13.  To obtain a conditional release, an 
applicant must submit an Enlisted Personnel Action Request (NAVPERS 1306/7) 
to the Nuclear Propulsion Program Manager (N133) via their detailer, Enlisted 
Submarine and Nuclear Assignment (PERS-403).  The FY-17 EMDP2 selection board 
will only consider nuclear enlisted candidates who have conditional release 
included in their EMDP2 application.

8.  Applications should be mailed to:
     ICO:  EMDP2
     Navy Medical Special Pays Program
     Bureau of Medicine and Surgery (M13)
     7700 Arlington Blvd (Suite 5125)
     Arlington, VA 22042-5125

9.  Point of contact is HMC Khamvah Phetkhamyath, Navy Medical Special Pays 
Program, Bureau of Medicine and Surgery, at (703) 681-4334 or via e-mail at 
khamvah.phetkhamyath.mil(at)mail.mil.

10.  Released by Vice Admiral R. P. Burke, N1.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
