UNCLASSIFIED/

ROUTINE

R 221621Z APR 15

FM CNO WASHINGTON DC

TO NAVADMIN

INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC

NAVADMIN 093/15

BT
UNCLAS

SUBJ/FY-16 JUDGE ADVOCATE GENERAL'S CORPS IN-SERVICE PROCUREMENT PROGRAM 
SELECTION BOARD// 

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/APR//

REF/A/DOC/OPNAV/30APR13//

REF/B/DOC/OPNAV/28FEB12//

NARR/REF A IS JUDGE ADVOCATE GENERAL'S CORPS IN-SERVICE PROCUREMENT PROGRAM 
AUTHORIZATION 111A.  REF B IS OPNAVINST 1811.3A, VOLUNTARY RETIREMENT AND 
TRANSFER TO THE FLEET RESERVE OF MEMBERS OF THE NAVY SERVING ON ACTIVE 
DUTY.//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN announces the convening of the FY-16 Judge Advocate 
General*s Corps (JAGC) In-Service Procurement Program (IPP) Selection Board 
no earlier than February 2016.  The JAGC IPP provides outstanding, career-
motivated enlisted personnel of all ratings, who meet the eligibility 
criteria, the opportunity to earn a commission in the JAGC.  The FY-16 board 
will accept applications for the Funded Legal Education Option and the Direct 
Commission Option (DCO).

2.  This program is open to active-duty enlisted Sailors and Navy full-time 
support (FTS) personnel in any rating or military occupational specialty in 
paygrades E5 through E7 at the time of the application.  Applicants must have 
served on active duty for a period of no less than 2 years and no more than 
10 years at the time the applications are due.  Members of the individual 
ready reserve
(IRR) or serving on active-duty for special work (ADSW), active duty for 
training (ADT), or one-to-three year recalls are not eligible for this 
program.

3.  Reference (a), provides information on authorized program benefits, 
eligibility, obligated service, and program requirements.
The requirement in reference (a), for Funded Legal Education Option 
applicants to submit at least law school acceptance letter is replaced by the 
requirements in paragraph 6.c. below.  No other waivers will be granted.

4.  Application procedures are provided in reference (a) and this NAVADMIN.  
Further program information can be found at 
www.jag.navy.mil/careers/careers/opportunities_ipp.html and 
www.cnrc.navy.mil/program-authorizations.htm.

5.  Applicants must not have reached their 42nd birthday by the time of 
initial appointment.  This requirement will not be waived.

6.  Amplifying education information for the FY-16 board.
    a.  Law School Admission Test (LSAT) exam scores are required for all 
applicants.
    b.  All applicants must hold a baccalaureate degree from an accredited 
institution.  Applicants must submit their official transcripts for all 
degrees earned and a complete list of all schools attended.
    c.  Applicants applying to the Funded Legal Education Option must provide 
a prioritized list of U.S. law schools accredited by the American Bar 
Association (ABA) to which the applicant has applied.  Applicants are 
encouraged to apply to more than one school.  Applicants must apply to at 
least one law school in which in-state tuition fees can be obtained and one 
law school near the applicant*s current duty station.  Applicants must 
provide a copy of any acceptance letters received prior to the convening of 
the selection board.
    d.  Applicants applying for the DCO must have obtained a law degree 
(juris doctor) from a law school considered by the ABA to be accredited under 
provisions established by the ABA at their graduation.
    e.  Applicants for the DCO must submit a letter or certificate of good 
standing from the licensing authority admitting the applicant to the practice 
of law before a federal court or the highest court of a state, a U.S. 
territory, the commonwealth of Puerto Rico, or the District of Columbia.
    f.  Applicants assigned to a nuclear training command or who hold a 
nuclear Navy Enlisted Classification (NEC) (335X, 336X, 338X,
339X) and are applying for the FY-16 JAGC IPP Selection Board must obtain 
conditional release from nuclear field duty prior to submitting their 
application for consideration for the FY-16 board.
To obtain a conditional release, an applicant must submit a NAVPERS 1306/7, 
Enlisted Personnel Action Request to OPNAV Nuclear Propulsion Program 
Management Branch (N133) via their detailer (PERS-403).  The FY-16 JAGC IPP 
Selection Board will only consider nuclear enlisted candidates who have 
conditional release included in their JAGC IPP application.
    g.  For applicants not assigned to nuclear programs listed in paragraph 
6.f.:  Applicants under obligated training require conditional release from 
their enlisted community manager (ECM).  To obtain a conditional release, an 
applicant must submit NAVPERS
1306/7 Enlisted Personnel Action Request to their ECM.  The FY-16 JAGC IPP 
selection board will only consider enlisted candidates who have a conditional 
release included in their program application.

7.  Applications must be postmarked no later than 4 December 2015 and mailed, 
via applicant's current commanding officer, to:
       Commander, Navy Personnel Command
       PERS-4416E, JAGC Accessions Office
       5720 Integrity Drive
       Millington, TN  38055-4416
Additional or amplifying documents including LSAT scores may be submitted by 
the applicant using the address listed in this message and must be post 
marked no later than 15 January 2016.  Incomplete applications will not be 
reviewed by the board.

8.  Per reference (a), prior to submitting a completed application, 
applicants are required to contact PERS-4416E to schedule a structured 
interview with two JAGC officers.  This requirement is separate from and, in 
addition to, the command interview.

9.  Point of contact is LCDR Geraldo Padilla, Navy Personnel Command JAGC 
Accessions Detailer, via e-mail at geraldo.padilla(at)navy.mil, or at (901) 
874-4084/DSN 882.

10.  This message is canceled for record purposes on 30 September 2016.

11.  Released by Vice Admiral W. F. Moran, N1.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
