UNCLASSIFIED

ROUTINE

R 101548Z AUG 16

FM CNO WASHINGTON DC

TO NAVADMIN

INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC

BT
UNCLAS
PASS TO OFFICE CODES:
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//

NAVADMIN 177/16

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/AUG//

SUBJ/CHANGE TO THE CYBER WARRANT OFFICER COMMISSIONING PROGRAM//

REF/A/DOC/OPNAV/14DEC09//

REF/B/MSG/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/171307ZSEP12//

REF/C/MSG/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/202357ZAPR10//

REF/D/MSG/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/071628ZOCT13//

NARR/REF A IS OPNAVINST 1420.1B, ENLISTED TO OFFICER COMMISSIONING PROGRAMS 
APPLICATION ADMINISTRATIVE MANUAL.  REF B IS NAVADMIN 281/12, ADVANCED CHANGE 
NOTICE TO OPNAVINST 1420.1B CHAPTER SEVEN, LIMITED DUTY OFFICER AND CHIEF 
WARRANT OFFICER APPLICATION INSTRUCTION AND POLICY.  REF C IS NAVADMIN 
139/10, ESTABLISHMENT OF THE CYBER WARRANT OFFICER COMMUNITY, REF D IS 
NAVADMIN 259/13, CHANGE TO THE CYBER WARRANT OFFICER COMMISSIONING PROGRAM.//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN announces changes to Cyber Warrant Officer 
commissioning program.

2.  In order to meet the increasing demand for officers with specific 
Computer Network Operations focused knowledge, skills, and abilities, the 
Secretary of the Navy approved the establishment of the Cyber Warrant Officer 
designator in 2010.  Designated as Chief Warrant Officers in the ranks of 
Chief Warrant Officer-2 (W-2) through Chief Warrant Officer-5 (W-5), this 
program provides a deliberate means of identifying, developing, and 
commissioning technically-proficient Sailors to operate, analyze, plan, and 
direct offensive and defensive Cyber Operations.

3.  Sailors from the Cryptologic Technician Networks (CTN) and Information 
Systems Technician (IT) ratings who have demonstrated operational Cyber 
experience and acumen in offensive and defensive Cyber Operations are 
eligible candidates for the Cyber Warrant program.  Candidates must have a 
minimum of six years technical experience (i.e., Network Exploitation 
Analyst, Penetration Testing, Malware Analysis, Forensic Analysis, 
Vulnerability Analysis, etc.).
CTNs who possess one of the Interactive Operator (ION) Naval Enlisted 
Classification (NECs) (9308, 9326, 9327, 9328) are highly competitive 
candidates for the Cyber Warrant program.  Initial assignments will be under 
the purview of Fleet Cyber Command.

4.  Due to the highly technical and ever-changing landscape of the Cyber 
Warfare Environment, candidates who do not possess an ION NEC will be 
required to take and pass the Computer Network Operations Test (CNT) to be 
considered eligible for selection.  This requirement is non-waiverable.

5.  All selections will be made via the Limited Duty Officer (LDO) and Chief 
Warrant Officer (CWO) In-Service Procurement Board.

6.  Points of Contact:
    a.  For general LDO/CWO career path and policy questions, contact CWO5 
Elizabeth Rivera at (901)874-2464/DSN 882 or via e-mail at 
elizabeth.rivera1(at)navy.mil or LT Holly Taylor at (901)874- 4714/DSN 882 or 
via e-mail at holly.r.taylor(at)navy.mil.
    b.  For application and eligibility questions, contact the Navy Personnel 
Command board sponsor LT Beau Blanchard at (901)874- 3170/DSN 882 or via 
email at beau.blanchard(at)navy.mil or Mr.
Joseph Delfoe at (901)874-3849/DSN 882 or via e-mail at 
joseph.delfoe(at)navy.mil.
    c.  For Cyber Warrant Officer program questions, contact LCDR Lemuel 
Lawrence at (901)874-3123/DSN 882 or via e-mail at 
lemuel.lawrence(at)navy.mil.
    d.  For CNT facilitation, contact the Navy ION program manager CTNCS 
Joshua Vallot at (443)634-4571/DSN 685 or via e-mail at 
joshua.vallot(at)navy.mil.

7.  Released By Vice Admiral R. P. Burke, N1.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
