UNCLASSIFIED
ROUTINE
R 070101Z FEB 17
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC
BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 028/17

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N3N5/FEB//

SUBJ/SEMINAR XXI CLASS OF ACADEMIC YEAR (AY) 2017-2018 CALL FOR 
APPLICATIONS//

Rmks/1.  This is a call for applications for the Academic Year 2017-2018 
(AY17-18) Massachusetts Institute of Technology Seminar XXI:  Foreign 
Politics, International Relations, and the National Interest.  This CNO-
sponsored education program is managed by OPNAV N3N5.  Seminar XXI represents 
a unique opportunity for future policy leaders to share perspectives while 
cultivating their understanding of the intricate relationships among economy, 
society, and culture in the international environment.  Seminar Fellows 
develop broad perspectives and analytical skills that enable them to evaluate 
and formulate national policy.

2.  Seminar XXI is an educational program for current and future leaders in 
the U.S. national security and foreign policy communities. Administered by 
MIT's Center for International Studies, the program is intended for 
professionals with significant potential to move into key decision-making 
roles in the next 5-10 years.  Program participants, known as Fellows, come 
from a wide range of sponsoring organizations including the armed forces, 
Federal agencies, NGO's, and private companies.  The overriding goal of 
Seminar XXI is to equip rising military officials and civilian executives 
with the multidimensional analytic skills needed to understand foreign 
relations and shape effective policy options for the United States.

3.  Course Schedule:  Participants will meet after core work hours, once a 
month in the evenings and for three weekends in the DC area during the 2017-
2018 academic year, beginning 6 September 2017 and ending 6 May 2018.

4.  Eligibility.  The course is designed for senior officers (O-5 and above) 
and civilians with clear promotion potential who will have the opportunity to 
apply these skills in their respective fields in the Navy.  This application 
process applies only for individuals currently serving in Navy staff 
organizations within the Washington, D.C. area.  Those Navy personnel in OSD,
Defense Agencies, or the Joint Staff have separate paths for application.

5.  Program specifics.  Thirteen Navy staff officers and civilians will be 
selected for the AY17-18 Seminar XXI fellowships. Applicants must be able to 
commit to attending every class with the full support of their command.  
There is no cost to the participants or their commands.

6.  Admission process: For academic year 2017-2018, MIT plans to select a 
total of 75 personnel across the entire Federal Government. Of these, 13 will 
be Washington, D.C. area Navy staff nominees. Navy's screening and selection 
process will chose those individuals with the best combination of experience, 
accomplishments, and clear potential for significant future advancement and 
leadership positions.

7.  Nomination package:  Each nomination package must include the following:  
Seminar XXI application form (Adobe); Sponsor endorsement form from the 
individual's reporting senior (Adobe); and a Curriculum Vitae (CV) form 
(Word). All forms will be forwarded to the applicant by email.  Deadline for 
application submission is 15 March 2017.  OPNAV N3/N5 will forward a list of 
13 finalists to the MIT Seminar XXI Admissions Board NLT 15 April.  Accepted 
Fellows will be notifed by mid-June 2017.

8.  Application forms and OPNAV N3N5 POCs:  Send all requests for forms to 
the OPNAV N3/N5 POCs:
    a. LCDR Kori Levy-Minzie (N515); DSN 260-4781 or COMM 571-256-4781; 
Email:  kori.levyminzie(at)navy.mil
    b. David Loneman (N515):  DSN 225-5461 or COMM 703-695-5461;
Email:  david.r.loneman.ctr(at)navy.mil

9. Released by VADM J. C. Aquilino, Deputy Chief of Naval Operations for 
Operations, Plans and Strategy (N3/N5)//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
