UNCLASSIFIED
PRIORITY
P 132251Z JAN 17
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
BT
UNCLAS
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 11/17

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N00D/JAN//

SUBJ/50TH ANNIVERSARY OF THE MCPON//

RMKS/1.  Today is the 50th anniversary of the establishment of the office of 
the Master Chief Petty Officer of the Navy (MCPON).  At that time, the Navy 
was experiencing extremely low morale across its enlisted force, very low 
retention and very high attrition across its ranks.  At the same time, our 
force was engaged in supporting the United States' involvement in the Vietnam 
War. Out of all of this, it was decided a senior enlisted advisor was needed, 
someone who had the enlisted person's mentality, experience and tenacity to 
be honest with Navy leadership about real challenges concerning the enlisted 
force.  Of a very prestigious group, GMCM Delbert Black was selected to be 
our first MCPON.

2. Many of you are familiar with this story, but on this day, 50 years hence, 
I request each of you to please take a moment to stop and reflect upon all 
the changes the Navy has made to improve the quality of life for enlisted 
Sailors and their families, and what we as Chief Petty Officers have played 
in that role.  Throughout the years, each MCPON has made significant 
contributions to our force, strengthened our mess with their experience and 
turned what was once merely an advisory position to the CNO into an integral 
part of our Navy's leadership structure.

3.  As we move forward this year, commemorating 50 years of the MCPON, 
remember our proud heritage as Chief Petty Officers, the many contributions 
each has made and will continue to do so as we move forward through the next 
50 years.

4.  MCPON Giordano sends.

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
