UNCLASSIFIED

ROUTINE

R 141446Z JUN 17

FM CNO WASHINGTON DC

TO NAVADMIN

INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC

BT
UNCLAS
PASS TO OFFICE CODES:
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//

NAVADMIN 137/17

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/JUN//

SUBJ/EXPLOSIVE ORDNANCE DISPOSAL WARFARE OFFICER RETENTION BONUS//

REF/A/DOC/USC/3JAN12//

REF/B/DOC/DOD/11JUL16//

REF/C/DOC/ASN/5MAY17/NOTAL//

REF/D/DOC/DOD/16JUL16//

NARR/REF A IS TITLE 37, U.S. CODE, PAY AND ALLOWANCES OF THE UNIFORMED 
SERVICES.  REF B IS DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE INSTRUCTION 1304.34, GENERAL BONUS 
AUTHORITY FOR OFFICERS.  REF C IS ASSISTANT SECRETARY OF THE NAVY MEMORANDUM 
OFFICER RETENTION BONUS - NAVY EXPLOSIVE ORDNANCE DISPOSAL WARFARE OFFICER 
RETENTION BONUS AUTHORIZATION.  REF D IS DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE FINANCIAL 
MANAGEMENT REGULATION 7000.14, VOLUME 7A, CHAPTER 2, REPAYMENT OF UNEARNED 
PORTION OF BONUSES AND OTHER BENEFITS.//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN announces the Explosive Ordnance Disposal
(EOD) Warfare Officer Retention Bonus (ORB) for qualified EOD Officers.  
Retaining EOD Warfare Officers is a top priority for the Navy.

2.  Program Authority.  This bonus is authorized under section 332 of 
reference (a) and reference (c).  All applications for this bonus will be 
submitted to the EOD Officer Assignments and Placement Officer (PERS-416) for 
approval, payment processing, and tracking.

3.  Program Overview.  This message summarizes the provisions of the EOD ORB.  
All information provided herein is applicable to active component (AC) 
personnel only.  The following general summary is
provided:
    a.  Qualified lieutenants (LT) will be offered the opportunity to commit 
to a 4-year or 3-year agreement starting at their 7 year of commissioned 
service (YCS) anniversary date.
    b.  Qualified lieutenant commanders (LCDR) will have the opportunity to 
commit to a 3-year agreement starting at their 12 YCS anniversary date.
    c.  Reference (b) limits career retention bonus payments to
300,000 dollars for AC officers.
    d.  In line with reference (b), LTs in year group (YG)-09 and senior, and 
LCDRs in YG-04 and senior who are under contract prior to the release of this 
NAVADMIN will remain under the legacy EOD Critical Skill Retention Bonus 
(CSRB) construct.

4.  Program Eligibility
    a.  LT EOD ORB:
        (1) Unrestricted line (URL) officers (designator 1140) that qualified 
both EOD warfare officer and EOD department head awarded the additional 
qualification designators (AQD) of KG5 and KG0.
        (2) Completed 7 years of commissioned service (4-year bonus) or 8 
years of commissioned service (3-year bonus).
        (3) Completed any service commitment incurred through original 
commissioning.
        (4) Medically and physically qualified for assignment to sea duty.
    b.  LCDR EOD ORB:
        (1) URL Officers (designator 1140) that qualified both EOD Warfare 
Officer and EOD department head awarded the AQDs of KG5 and KG0.
        (2) Completed 12 years of commissioned service.
        (3) Medically and physically qualified for assignment to sea duty.
    c.  Career Intermission Program (CIP).  An Officer participating in CIP 
will be ineligible to receive ORB payments during the intermission period.  
Payments will resume upon return to service and in line with the payment 
scheme.

5.  Program Execution
    a.  The EOD warfare officer community manager is assigned as the program 
manager, and is delegated the authority to administer the EOD ORB Program 
according to applicable laws, Department of Defense
(DoD) directives/instructions, and this NAVADMIN.
    b.  PERS-416 will receive applications submitted in the format referenced 
in paragraph 7 and is delegated the authority to:
        (1) Evaluate the eligibility of EOD Officers applying for the EOD 
ORB.
        (2) Accept EOD Officers Agreement to remain on active duty for the 
stated period in exchange for an EOD ORB and administer ORB payments.
    c.  All applications require written endorsement from their commander or 
commanding officer.
    d.  Service Members will receive their bonus amount upon agreement 
acceptance and then in annual anniversary payments through the term of the 
agreement.
    e.  Upon the program managers acceptance of an officers agreement, the 
amount of the bonus becomes fixed and the officer will incur a firm service 
obligation.
    f.  ORB requests for personnel who are being processed for officer 
designation removal or restoration will be held in abeyance, pending final 
resolution of action in question.
    g.  Annual LT ORB contract quotas will be based on LCDR requirements for 
the EOD officer community and special and incentive pay funding controls.  If 
the number of officer applications exceed available funded contracts, 
approval criteria will be determined by the program manager and EOD community 
leadership.
    h.  Annual LCDR ORB contract quotas will be based on CDR requirements for 
the EOD officer community, as well as special and incentive pay funding 
controls.  If more officers apply than available funded contracts, approval 
criteria will be determined by the program manager and EOD community 
leadership.
    i.  All commanding officers shall encourage qualified officers to submit 
applications for EOD ORB and must endorse all requests in writing.  Commands 
must ensure applications are accurate and verify applicants meet the 
eligibility requirements, including no pending actions which may render an 
applicant ineligible for the EOD ORB.
Application delays increase the likelihood that the community quotas will be 
met before an application of an officer is received.
    j.  Officers under an ORB agreement are not eligible to apply for the 
Junior Permanent Military Professor (JPMP) program, or any redesignation 
programs that result in a designator change to any designator other than 
1140.  An officer under an ORB agreement, may submit an application for JPMP 
or any redesignation programs once the date of application is within 12 
months of the final day of bonus obligation.

6.  Payment Structure
    a.  LT EOD ORB:
        (1) 4-year Agreement.  Officers who commit to 4 years of additional 
active-duty service will receive 20,000 dollars per year, paid in equal 
installments beginning upon completion of 7 YCS, and will continue over the 
course of the agreement.  This contract cannot extend an officer past 11 YCS.
        (2) 3-year Agreement.  Officers who commit to 3 years of additional 
active-duty service will receive 15,000 dollars per year, paid in equal 
installments beginning upon completion of their 8th YCS, and will continue 
over the course of the agreement.  This contract cannot extend an officer 
past 11 YCS.
    b.  LCDR EOD ORB:  3-year Agreement.  Officers who commit to 3 years of 
additional active-duty service will receive 22,000 dollars upon completion of 
their 12th YCS and 12,000 dollars per year thereafter over the course of the 
agreement.
    c.  EOD ORB agreement obligations will run concurrently or consecutively 
in line with reference (b).

7.  Application Process
    a.  Officers within 1 year of eligibility may apply for the EOD ORB via 
their commanding officer.  Officers must submit a copy of the signed original 
contract and an endorsement from the commanding officer by e-mail to PERS-
416, the EOD Administrative Assistant (PERS-416A), and the EOD Officer 
Community Manager (BUPERS-311E).
    b.  General Notes
        (1) Sample application format for EOD ORB can be found on the EOD OCM 
webpage on the NPC website at
http://www.public.navy.mil/bupers-
npc/officer/communitymanagers/Unrestricted/Pages/ExplosiveOrdnanceDi
sposalOCM.aspx.
        (2) Applications will be held until payment eligibility date.
        (3) Applications will be binding upon the date of approval.
        (4) Applications received in the incorrect format or not meeting 
eligibility requirements defined in this NAVADMIN will be rejected.

8.  Recoupment and Repayment Policy
    a.  Situations requiring recoupment are in line with section 373 of 
reference (a), reference (b) and reference (d).  A member of the uniformed 
services who enters into a written agreement with specified service 
conditions for receipt of a bonus is entitled to the full amount of the bonus 
if the member fulfills the conditions of the written agreement.  If the 
member fails to fulfill the service conditions specified in the written 
agreement for the pay, then the pay may be terminated and the member may be 
required to repay an amount equal to the unearned portion of the pay.  EOD 
ORB payments will be stopped for officers who become ineligible for this 
incentive or fail to complete the full period of additional obligated 
service.
    b.  For officers who die while serving under an EOD ORB service 
agreement, the remaining EOD ORB balance will be paid as a lump sum as part 
of the settlement of the final military pay account of the officer.  If death 
is determined to be the result of the misconduct of the member, termination 
of future payments and recoupment of unearned portions of the bonus, as 
applicable, will be made in line with procedures established for members 
whose inability to complete a contracted period of service is voluntary or 
the result of misconduct.

9.  Additional guidance, information, and updates regarding the EOD ORB are 
available at the BUPERS Website.

10.  Point of contact is LCDR Jeffrey Lavery, EOD Officer Community Manager, 
who can be reached at (901) 874-4991/DSN 882 or via e-mail at 
jeffrey.lavery(at)navy.mil.

11.  Released by Vice Admiral R. P. Burke, N1//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
