UNCLASSIFIED//

ROUTINE

R 201509Z DEC 19 MID110000255006U

FM CNO WASHINGTON DC

TO NAVADMIN

INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC

BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 299/19

PASS TO OFFICE CODES:
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/DEC//

SUBJ/FY-20 FULL-TIME SUPPORT AVIATION COMMAND RETENTION BONUS//

REF/A/DOC/SECNAV/6FEB18//

REF/B/DOC/OPNAV/15AUG05//

NARR/REF A IS SECNAVINST 7220.88, AVIATION INCENTIVE PAYS AND BONUS PROGRAM.  
REF B IS OPNAVINST 7220.9, NAVY AVIATION CAREER CONTINUATION PAY.//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN announces the Fiscal Year (FY) 2020 Full-Time Support 
(FTS) Aviation Command Retention Bonus (ACRB).

2.  A vital part of developing a total force strategy and maintaining combat 
readiness is to provide appropriate incentives to retain skilled personnel 
for critical naval aviation enterprise billets.  The FTS Aviation Bonus (AvB) 
Program, consisting of the Aviation Department Head Retention Bonus (ADHRB) 
and ACRB, incentivizes highly talented, hard-working, career- minded naval 
aviators and naval flight officers who choose to remain for a post command 
commander (PCC) tour.  The return on investment is the retention for 
continued naval service of our aviation warfighters with their valuable skill 
sets and leadership experience.  Information on the
FY-20 FTS ADHRB will be released in separate correspondence.

3.  FTS ACRB
    a.  The FTS ACRB is designed to retain those officers with the 
capabilities and command experience in our primary warfighting missions who 
are critical for the future of our service.  Our cadre of commander (CDR) 
commanding officers (CO) lead our Naval Aviation Enterprise today, and they 
are the major commanders and flag officers of tomorrow.  Their skills and 
leadership experience are essential to the success of the Navy.  The FY-20 
ACRB incentivizes their continued service in follow-on assignments requiring 
senior aviation leaders.
     b.  ACRB applicants must have screened on the FY-20 Aviation Command 
Screen Board (ACSB) as CO of an eligible operational, operational training, 
or special mission CDR command in order to apply.  Eligible commands are 
those for which the annual ACSB selects officers to serve as CO, excluding 
second-in-grade, sequential, bonus or fleet replacement squadron commands.
Consult the FY-20 ACRB Program information for specific eligibility criteria 
and limitations.  The application opportunity commences with the release of 
this NAVADMIN and closes on 31 August 2020.
     c.  All FY-20 ACRB contracts will be worth $100,000.  Eligible officers 
will receive an initial payment of $34,000 and two-anniversary payments of 
$33,000.  Participation in the FY-20 ACRB obligates contractees to 3 years of 
obligated service to include full completion of a PCC tour, which may be 
between 24 and 36 months depending on assignment.  ACRB obligation ends at 
the completion of 22 years of service, the projected rotation date of the 
assigned PCC tour, or 3 years from contract acceptance date, whichever is 
later.  ACRB applications for those currently under ADHRB obligations will be 
accepted, held in abeyance and activated upon ADHRB contract expiration.

4.  Additional AvB Information
     a.  Officers accepting AvB contracts are not precluded from 
participating in the Career Intermission Program (CIP).  Officers interested 
in both AvB and CIP should contact the AvB program manager and their detailer 
for more information.
    b.  For further AvB details, eligibility and application procedures, 
visit the MyNavy Portal at https://my.navy.mil and then navigate to Quick 
Links, Navy Personnel Command website, Officer, Officer Detailing, PERS-46 
FTS and open the FTS Aviation link under the FTS Community Links.

5.  AvB points of contact
    a.  Policy:  Manager Reserve Component Branch at (901) 874-3605/DSN 882 
or via e-mail at bupers-3_FTS_OCM.fct(at)navy.mil.
    b.  Eligibility:  FTS Aviation Placement Officer at (901) 874-4146/DSN
882 or via e-mail at fts_aviat_detail.fct(at)navy.mil.

6.  Released by Vice Admiral John B. Nowell, Jr, N1.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//

