UNCLASSIFIED//
ROUTINE
R 181248Z MAY 15
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 119/15

SUBJ/MRS. SYBIL STOCKDALE OMBUDSMAN OF THE YEAR AWARD//

REF/A/DOC/OPNAVINST/2SEP2014//
AMPN/REF A IS OPNAVINST 1750.1G, THE NAVY FAMILY OMBUDSMAN PROGRAM.//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN announces the establishment of the annual Mrs. Sybil 
Stockdale Ombudsman of the Year Award nomination/selection process, and 
presentation requirements for Calendar Year (CY) 2015.  Information in this 
NAVADMIN will be reflected in an update to reference (a).

2.  This award was inspired by Mrs. Sybil Stockdale who set an unflagging 
example for her support to families of other Prisoners of War (POWs) during 
her husband's, Vice Admiral James Bond Stockdale, seven year internment in 
Southeast Asia.  The Ombudsman of the Year Award is presented to four 
ombudsmen who have served their command and families with selfless dedication 
and commitment to family readiness in the following categories:
    a.  Afloat command (Commander, U.S. Fleet Forces Command 
(COMUSFLTFORCOM))
    b.  Afloat command (Commander, U.S. Pacific Fleet Command (COMPACFLT))
    c.  Ashore command
    d.  Reserve command

3.  Criteria for Ombudsman of the Year:
    a.  Must have demonstrated the ability to effectively communicate between 
the Navy family and the command.
    b.  Must have maintained the highest standards of professionalism and 
confidentiality while providing a positive role model for command members and 
families.
    c.  Must have facilitated and promoted a healthy sense of community among 
command families by assisting and supporting Navy families to include 
emergencies, mobilization or deployment.
    d.  Must have demonstrated consistent compliance with training and 
required reports according to reference (a).

4.  Eligibility requirements for Ombudsman of the Year:
    a.  Award nominees must be registered in the Ombudsman Registry,
https://ombudsmanregistry.org and have distinguished themselves in supporting 
Navy families.
    b.  Must have served as an Ombudsman in good standing for at least one 
year, and embody the core values of the Ombudsman Program.

5.  The nomination package for the Ombudsman of the Year award shall consist 
of:
    a.  Cover Letter
    b.  Summary of action not to exceed two pages written addressing each of 
the criterion set forth in paragraph 3.
    c.  Short biography of the nominee with photo included.
    d.  Letter of support from the Fleet and Family Support Center Director 
or Regional Component Command validating involvement in Ombudsman Assemblies 
and Advanced Training.
    e.  Additional supporting information (e.g., a letter of support for 
nomination from former Commanding Officers, Command Point of Contact (POC), 
or Command Support Team; letters of appreciation presented by Commanding 
Officers or family members). 
6.  Nomination process:
    a.  COMUSFLTFORCOM Ombudsman of the Year.  COMUSFLTFORCOM will nominate 
an Ombudsman from all deployable forces within the Atlantic Fleet.
    b.  COMPACFLT Ombudsman of the Year.  COMPACFLT will nominate an 
Ombudsman from all deployable forces within the Pacific Fleet.
    c.  Navy Reserve Force Ombudsman of the Year.  Commander, Navy Reserve 
Force Command (COMNAVRESFOR) will nominate an Ombudsman from all Navy Reserve 
Units and Navy Operational Support Centers.
    d.  Navy Shore Ombudsman of the Year.  The Office of the Chief of Naval 
Operations (OPNAV) will nominate a shore (type 1 and type 6) Ombudsman from 
the following:  OPNAV direct report naval shore activities; COMUSFLTFORCOM; 
COMPACFLT; U.S. Naval Forces Europe, U.S. Naval Forces Africa; and Deputy 
Chief of Naval Operations, Manpower, Personnel, Training and Education (N1).

7.  Deadline: Nomination packages shall be submitted to the appropriate 
organization, via the chain of command, not later than 30 June 2015.

8.  Recommendations for the four award winners will be forwarded to the Chief 
of Naval Operations (CNO) for endorsement as the final approving authority 
for the award.  Award recipients will be announced via NAVADMIN.

9.  CNO or his designated representative will present the awards in September 
during an Ombudsman Appreciation event to be held in San Diego for CY2015 and 
in Washington, DC at the Pentagon in subsequent years.

10.  Additional information about the award process and procedures is located 
at www.cnic.navy.mil/OmbudsmanOfTheYear.

11.  POC is Mrs. Katherine Rock, CNIC Ombudsman Program Manager, at (202) 
433-4701 or via email at katherine.rock(AT)navy.mil.

12.  Released by Vice Admiral S. H. Swift, Director, Navy Staff.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
