UNCLASSIFIED
ROUTINE
R 031411Z AUG 16
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC
BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 171/16

SUBJ/ACADEMIC YEAR 2017-2018 (AY17-18) POLITICO-MILITARY MASTERS (PMM) DEGREE 
PROGRAM CALL FOR APPLICATIONS//

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N3N5/JUL//
REF/A/DOC/CNO/22JUN2010//
REF/B/DOC/CNO/07JAN2015//
REF/C/DOC/CNO/141554ZJAN15//
NARR/Ref A is OPNAVINST 1500.72G, Navy Politico-Military Fellowships, 
Graduate Education Programs, and Community Sponsorship.
Ref B is OPNAVINST 1520.23C, Graduate Education.  Ref C is NAVADMIN 011/15, 
Establishment of the Naval Strategy Subspecialty 230X.//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN solicits applications for the AY17-2018 Pol-Mil 
Masters (PMM) Program.  The PMM Program provides junior Navy officers a 
graduate education in strategy and politico-military affairs at leading 
civilian universities throughout the United States.  Ultimately the PMM 
program is a key component of the Navy Strategic Enterprise, creating through 
education a naval strategist cadre to be utilized in subsequent strategy and 
policy-related billets.
    a.  Eligibility. Active duty O3-O5 unrestricted line and select 
restricted line (1710, 1810, 1820, and 1830) designated officers are eligible 
to apply.  This includes O2s selected for O3 and promoted prior to the start 
of the academic year. Officers who already participated in a Department of 
Defense-funded graduate education program are not eligible; however, those 
officers who earned a degree through the Tuition Assistance Program or 
Service war college retain their eligibility for PMM.
    b.  Program specifics.  Per reference (b), eight officers will be 
selected for the one-year program (the two-year PMM and Arthur S.  Moreau 
Programs listed in reference (a) are not currently funded), with preference 
given to junior officers. Selected officers will carry a full 12-month 
academic load in the designated degree programs listed below.  The approved 
AY17-18 institutions and associated degree programs are:
        1) Harvard University (Boston).  Mid-Career Master in
           Public Administration through the John F. Kennedy
           School of Government.
        2) Johns Hopkins University (Washington, DC).  Master
           of International Public Policy through the Paul H.
           Nitze School of Advanced International Studies.
        3) Princeton University (Princeton, NJ).  Master in
           Public Policy (MPP) - International Relations,
           Woodrow Wilson School of Public and International
           Affairs.
        4) Tufts University (Boston).  Master of Arts in the
           Mid-Career Program at the Fletcher School of Law
           and Diplomacy.
        5) University of California, San Diego.  Master of Arts
           in Advanced Studies in International Affairs at the
           School of International Relations and Pacific Studies.
        6) University of Chicago.  Master of Arts in International
           Relations at the Committee on International Relations.
        7) University of Virginia (Charlottesville, VA).  Master
           of Arts in Foreign Affairs (International Relations)
           in the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, Woodrow
           Wilson Department of Politics.
        8) University of Washington (Seattle).  Master of Arts in
           Applied International Studies through the Henry M.
           Jackson School of International Studies.
    c.  IAW reference (c), URL officer graduates will earn the 2300P Naval 
Strategy subspecialty and the 240 Additional Qualification Designation (AQD) 
codes.  Restricted Line graduates will earn the 2000P National Security 
subspecialty code and the 240 AQD codes.
    d.  Service Obligation. PMM graduates incur a service obligation equal to 
three times (3x) the number of months in the education program, up to a 
maximum of 36 months.  PMM graduates will serve at least one tour in a 
validated subspecialty billet in either politico-military affairs or strategy 
and policy as soon as possible.

2.  Application Procedures and Timeline.
    a.  Candidates must apply to both the Navy and to the university; 
acceptance by the Navy does not equal acceptance by the school.  Applications 
to the Navy require a curriculum vitae, undergraduate transcripts, biography, 
and endorsement letters from both the current Commanding Officer and the 
detailer.  Submission of official undergraduate transcripts and GRE/GMAT 
scores is highly encouraged but not required. Sample PMM application is found 
in reference (a), enclosure 1.
    b.  Applications to the school vary according to the schools 
requirements.  When completing the university applications, prospective 
students should state that they are a Navy-funded Politico-Military Master's 
candidate. PMM candidates should verify the university's work experience 
requirements and are advised to apply to at least three schools.
    c.  Applications are due to Navy Personnel Command NLT 30 September 2016.  
The selection board will convene in early November 2016 and results will be 
announced via NAVADMIN in December 2016.
    d.  Interested officers should submit applications via email to the 
NAVPERSCOM and OPNAV POCs listed at the end of this NAVADMIN.  When 
submitted, ensure electronic copies are clear, legible, and properly 
endorsed.

3.  Points of Contact:
    a.  OPNAV: LCDR Kori-Levy-Minzie, N515; DSN 222-4781 or COMM:
    571-256-4781; Email: kori.levyminzie(at)navy.mil.
    b.  NAVPERSCOM: PERS-440_submit.fct(at)navy.mil.

4.  Released by Vice Admiral J. C. Aquilino, Deputy Chief of Naval operations 
for Operations, Plans and Strategy (N3/N5)//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
