UNCLASSIFIED//
ROUTINE
R 171839Z OCT 14 PSN 866080H28
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 244/14

SUBJ/ROLLOUT OF NAVY STANDARD INTEGRATED PERSONNEL SYSTEM ORDER WRITING 
MODULE AND CANCELLATION OF STANDARD TRANSFER ORDERS// 

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/OCT//
REF/A/DOC/OASN FM&C/26SEP08/NOTAL//
REF/B/DOC/NAVPERS/17DEC13//
REF/C/DOC/CNPC/06NOV12//
REF/D/DOC/NAVSO P-1000/12DEC02//
REF/E/DOC/JTR/01OCT14//
NARR/REF A IS DD FORM 67, FORM PROCESSING ACTION REQUEST.  REF B IS THE NAVAL 
MILITARY PERSONNEL MANUAL.  REF C IS NAVPERS 1320/16, TEMPORARY ADDITIONAL 
DUTY (TEMADD) TRAVEL ORDERS.  REF D IS DEPARTMENT OF THE NAVY FINANCIAL 
MANAGEMENT POLICY MANUAL.  REF E IS JOINT TRAVEL REGULATIONS.//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN announces the rollout of the Navy Standard Integrated 
Personnel System (NSIPS) order writing module, which will be utilized to 
generate all orders authorizing permanent change of station (PCS) transfer of 
members for unit moves, unit*s decommissioning, base realignment and closure 
(BRAC) moves, overseas tour extension incentive program, and enlisted 
separation and retirements.  All other PCS orders will be written by 
Commander, Navy Personnel Command (CNPC) (appropriate detailer).
This NAVADMIN also cancels Separation Order Writing Form (NAVPERS Form 
1900/2) in accordance with reference (a), therefore cancelling all versions 
of Standard Transfer Orders (STOs).

2.  Commanding officers and officers in charge do not have authorization to 
write command/field-generated PCS orders allocating CNPC appropriated funds 
outside the NSIPS order writing module.
Any order utilizing CNPC funds shall be written in CNPC order writing systems 
or NSIPS.

3.  Units not supported by a Personnel Support Detachment (PSD) or customer 
support detachment (CSD) have until 31 October 2014 to transition their 
processes to use the NSIPS order writing module.
CNPC will work with these units to gain access to NSIPS web until they have 
NSIPS version 1.3.20 installed on their ship.  The units listed below are 
non-PSD/CSD supported units:
    a.  All CVNs
    b.  USS FRANK CABLE (AS 40)
    c.  USS EMORY S. LAND (AS 39)
    d.  USS MOUNT WHITNEY (LCC 20)

4.  For enlisted members requesting transfer to the Fleet Reserve or 
retiring, CNPC will continue to issue the official message granting approval.  
That message will be the authorization for PSDs/CSDs and the above listed 
ships to issue the separation order via NSIPS.
    a.  Enlisted members not eligible for reenlistment or choosing to 
separate upon completion of their service obligation will be written 
separation orders in accordance with reference (b), specifically MILPERSMAN 
article (MPM) 1910 series, via NSIPS.
    b.  When processing an enlisted adverse separation order, refer to MPM 
1900 series for specific instructions.

5.  Transfer of a member for medical evaluation or treatment in an outpatient 
status will utilize temporary duty (TDY) orders in accordance with references 
(c) and (d).  Transfer of members in an inpatient status for evaluation or 
treatment will utilize a TDY order in accordance with reference (d), and 
funded by a Bureau of Medicine line of accounting.  Personnel in an 
outpatient status will be issued TDY orders utilizing that member*s command 
funds in accordance with reference (d).
    a.  Within 60 days of initial contact with a patient, the treating 
physician shall make a determination returning the member to duty or 
recommending reassignment to an area with suitable care.
    b.  If a medical determination is made that requires reassignment, the 
member*s command shall notify CNPC (PERS-454) via e-mail at mill_DAOPers-
454@navy.mil so PCS orders can be issued for transfer.
    c.  Enlisted service members must also submit an availability request to 
CNPC (PERS-40GG) via e-mail at mill_PERS4013_avails@navy.mil, and comply with 
reference (b), specifically MPM article 1306-1700.  CNPC (appropriate 
detailer) will issue the PCS order.
    d.  CNPC (PERS-454) may direct additional requirements (e.g. abbreviated 
medical board for enlisted, comply with MPM article 1301-122 for officers, 
etc.).

6.  OCONUS commands requesting an early return (ER) or Overseas Screening 
Deficiency Report/ER for any service member must complete requirements in 
accordance with reference (b), specifically outlined in MPM 1300-306.  
Additionally, commands shall comply with requirements outlined in paragraph 5 
above.

7.  Writing orders for service members in military confinement:
    a.  PCS orders are required for enlisted members and officers adjudged by 
a court-martial that includes a sentence to confinement in excess of 30 days, 
or any sentences of confinement that include a punitive discharge or 
dismissal, as applicable.
        (1) Member*s command shall contact CNPC (PERS-00D) at
(901) 874-4529 or DSN 882-4529 to obtain a designated place of confinement 
and provide CNPC (PERS-00D) with the report of results of trial (ROT).
        (2) CNPC (PERS-00D) shall review the ROT and forward a memorandum to 
CNPC (PERS-40BB) for enlisted members designating the military confinement; 
for officers, the memorandum shall be forwarded to the applicable detailer.
        (3) The respective detailer of the confined service member is 
responsible for writing and issuing the PCS order.
    b.  Enlisted members or officers adjudged by a court-martial that 
includes a sentence to confinement of 30 days or less of military confinement 
and does not include a punitive discharge or dismissal, as applicable, shall 
be issued TDY orders in accordance with references (c) through (e).

8.  Members in civilian pre-trial confinement:
    a.  Given there are no unusual circumstances, members should not receive 
transfer orders while civilian charges are pending.
    b.  For officers, notify CNPC (PERS-834) in accordance with MPM article 
1611-010.  If transfer orders are desired, CNPC (PERS-834) will coordinate 
with CNPC (PERS-4) and CNPC (PERS-00J) to determine whether such orders are 
appropriate.
    c.  For E-1 through E-9, notify CNPC (PERS-832) in accordance with MPM 
1616-040.  If transfer orders are desired, CNPC (PERS-832) will coordinate 
with CNPC (PERS-4) and CNPC (PERS-00J) to determine whether such orders are 
appropriate.

9.  Members who have been tried by civilian authorities and sentenced to 
confinement.
    a.  Follow instructions in paragraph 8 above for the notification and 
coordination processes.  CNPC/Deputy Chief of Naval Personnel will issue a 
PCS order for confinement.
    b.  As appropriate, follow procedures for administrative processing.  
Members in foreign confinement may not be separated until released.
    c.  If it is determined that administrative processing is not warranted, 
and there are no unusual circumstances, members should not receive transfer 
orders until released from confinement.
    d.  Once PCS orders are issued, commands shall contact the local PSD to 
ensure member is placed in Accounting Category Code 392 during civilian 
confinement, suspend pay, and begin documenting member*s unauthorized 
absence.  In no situation may a service member in confinement be placed in a 
leave status.

10.  PSDs/CSDs will not process STOs generated after 30 September 2014.  Pay 
and Personnel Information Bulletins will be distributed to PSDs/CSDs and 
personnel offices as updates are made to these processes.

11.  Military Entrance Processing Station moves to Recruit Training Command 
and Officer Candidate School will continue utilizing their current processes.

12.  In accordance with reference (e), any member ordered TDY away from their 
permanent duty station is required to be issued a properly funded order.  TDY 
funding requirements are outlined in reference (d).

13.  Flag Officer orders will continue to be issued by Chief of Naval 
Operations, Flag Matters (N00F).

14.  This NAVADMIN supersedes all current instructions, MPM articles and 
policy documents which address the issuance of STOs.
    a.  Any office responsible for documents referencing STOs shall update 
these documents* to reflect the correct process within 180 days of release 
from this NAVADMIN.

15.  MPM article 1320-302 (Preparation of STO) is hereby canceled.

16.  This NAVDMIN will remain in effect until superseded or canceled, 
whichever occurs first.

17.  Released by Vice Admiral W. F. Moran, N1.//

BT
#8116
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//

