UNCLASSIFIED/
ROUTINE
R 032020Z FEB 15
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC
BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 033/15

SUBJ/NAVAL POSTGRADUATE SCHOOL DISTANCE LEARNING GRADUATE EDUCATION PROGRAMS 
AVAILABLE FOR ACADEMIC YEAR 2015//

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/FEB//

RMKS/1.  Naval Postgraduate School (NPS) offers defense-focused master’s 
degrees and graduate certificates to develop quantitative skills and 
competencies, producing graduates with the disciplined analytical approach to 
problem solving that is essential to an effective, dynamic defense 
enterprise.  NPS is dedicated to providing relevant, high quality education, 
to empower the next generation of leadership in the Department of Defense 
(DoD).  A variety of delivery methods are utilized to expand learning beyond 
the traditional classroom.

2.  NPS Distance Learning (DL) programs are part-time programs (usually 12 to 
24 months) for mid-grade military officers and DoD civilian leaders who are 
unable to attend NPS residential graduate programs.  Graduate certificates 
are also available to qualified enlisted personnel.  DoD contractor personnel 
applications will be considered for admission on a space available basis.  
Student application forms are available at:
http://www.nps.edu/Academics/Admissions/ApplyOnline/ApplyNow.html.

3.  Mission funded seats are available to eligible active-duty United States 
Navy and United States Marine Corps (USMC) officers at no cost to the service 
member.  With the exception of mission funded seats, all others must be 
sponsored by an agency, an employer or a command.  USMC officers will apply 
through the USMC Distance Learning Program advertised in the corresponding 
annual MARADMIN message.  United States Navy Reserve officers are not 
eligible for any NPS program.  Funds can be transferred to NPS using an
Authorization, Agreement and Certification of Training (SF 182) form with a 
line of accounting, a Military Interdepartmental Purchase Request (DD Form 
448) or an Order for Work and Services Direct Citation (NAVCOMPT 2276-A).

4.  The following DL programs are available for Academic Year 2015:
    a.  DL master*s degree programs consist of two classes per quarter for 
eight quarters.  Check each program*s webpage for any prerequisites or 
eligibility requirements for enrollment as they may vary.  Copies of 
transcripts and participation agreements are required to support the 
application process for all degree programs. Curriculum #311 - Systems 
Engineering:
http://www.nps.edu/Academics/DL/DLPrograms/Programs/degProgs_SE_nonRes.html
       359 - Human Systems Integration:
http://www.nps.edu/Academics/DL/DLPrograms/Programs/degProgs_MHSI.html
       363 - Systems Analysis:
http://www.nps.edu/Academics/DL/DLPrograms/Programs/degProgs_MSA.html
       535 - Underwater Acoustic Systems (Engineering Acoustics):
http://www.nps.edu/Academics/DL/DLPrograms/Programs/degProgs_MEA.html
       721 - Systems Engineering Management-PD21 (for DoD Civilians)
:http://www.nps.edu/Academics/DL/DLprograms/Programs/degProgs_PD21.html
       805 - Executive Master of Business Administration:
http://www.nps.edu/Academics/Schools/GSBPP/Academics/EMBA.html
       807 - Executive Master of Business Administration (for DoD
       Civilians):
http://www.nps.edu/Academics/Schools/GSBPP/Academics/EMBA.html
       835 - Contract Management (for DoD Civilians):
http://www.nps.edu/Academics/Schools/GSBPP/Academics/MSCM.html
       836 - Program Management (for DoD Civilians):
http://www.nps.edu/Academics/Schools/GSBPP/Academics/MSPM.html
    b.  NPS offers the following programs that build on Navy advanced 
technical education schools and leverage the academic work in these schools 
and require reduced course work, typically one course per quarter for five to 
eight quarters.
       571 - Reactors - Mechanical/Electrical Engineering:
http://www.nps.edu/Academics/Schools/GSEAS/Departments/ECE/Handbook/MSESee/NR
Index.html
       572 - Mechanical Engineering for Nuclear Trained Officers:
http://www.nps.edu/Academics/GSEAS/MAE/DL/nuc.asp #program 613 - Naval Test 
Pilot/Mechanical & Aerospace Engineering:
       http://www.nps.edu/Academics/GSEAS/MAE/DL.asp
    c.  DL graduate certificates consist of a series of four graduate level 
courses delivered over four quarters, designed to provide greatly enhanced 
knowledge and skills in specific subject areas.  Check each program*s webpage 
for any prerequisites or eligibility requirements for enrollment as they may 
vary.
Curriculum #262 - Human Systems Integration:
http://www.nps.edu/Academics/DL/DLPrograms/Programs/cert_hsi.html
       273 - Space Systems:
http://www.nps.edu/Academics/DL/DLPrograms/Programs/cert_SS.html
       274 * Anti-Submarine Warfare:
http://www.nps.edu/Academics/DL/DLPrograms/Programs/cert_ASW.html
       281 - Systems Analysis:
http://www.nps.edu/Academics/DL/DLPrograms/Programs/cert_SA.html
       282 * Systems Engineering:
http://www.nps.edu/Academics/DL/DLPrograms/Programs/cert_SE.html
       289 - Cost Estimating and Analysis:
http://www.nps.edu/Academics/DL/DLPrograms/Programs/cert_cea.html

5.  All officers who enroll in a NPS DL master*s degree will incur a two to 
three year service obligation upon completion/withdrawal and all who enroll 
in a NPS certificate program will incur a one year service obligation upon 
completion/withdrawal.  Textbooks, education materials and all similar 
expenses will be borne by the student. Any officer who has previously 
received a Navy funded graduate degree will have to complete a second funded 
degree waiver request. Program commencement is subject to the availability of 
funds.

6.  For more information regarding NPS DL programs, visit 
http://www.nps.edu/DL/

7.  This NAVADMIN will remain in effect until superseded or canceled, 
whichever occurs first.

8.  Released by Vice Admiral W. F. Moran, N1. //

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
