UNCLASSIFIED//
ROUTINE
R 031754Z MAR 15 PSN 831117H21
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC
BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 054/15

SUBJ/2015 BOB FELLER ACT OF VALOR AWARDS//

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/DNS/FEB//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN solicits nominations for the third annual Bob Feller 
Act of Valor Award nominations for a chief petty officer (CPO) and for the 
Junior Sailor Peer-to-Peer Mentorship Chapter of the year.

2.  Background.  The Bob Feller Act of Valor Foundation established this 
prestigious award in 2013, named in honor of Major League Baseball (MLB) 
pitcher, National Baseball Hall of Fame (NBHOF) inductee, and Navy veteran 
Bob Feller.  Mr. Feller enlisted in the Navy shortly after the attack on 
Pearl Harbor while he was with the Cleveland Indians.  He served aboard USS 
Alabama (BB 60) as a Gun Captain, and during his time onboard, the ship 
fought in both World War II theaters, earning eight battle stars.  Mr. Feller 
was released from active-duty with the rank of CPO.

3.  Award.  This unique award is intended to recognize a representative from 
three critical areas of Mr. Feller's life:  his MLB career, his service in 
the Navy as a CPO and his enshrinement in the NBHOF.  Accordingly, the award 
will be presented to one active MLB player, one CPO and one member of the 
NBHOF.  This year the Bob Feller Act of Valor Foundation will also recognize 
a group of Sailors, 18-25 years old, who have most effectively worked 
together as a team (in either their personal or professional capacity) to
promote peer-to-peer mentorship and a reduction in Sailor destructive 
personal decision making and behavior.  The awards will be presented at the 
Navy Memorial in Washington, D.C. on 4 November 2015.

4.  Eligibility and selection criteria.  Nominees for the CPO award must be a 
CPO (E7), active or reserve, and must be outstanding military professionals 
and leaders in their communities.  The following selection criteria for Navy 
nominees have been prescribed by the Bob Feller Act of Valor Foundation and 
are based upon the principles by which Mr. Feller lived his life.  Nominees 
must:
    a.  Be outstanding leaders in the performance of all professional 
responsibilities.  Serve as an example to peers and subordinates as 
inspirational leaders.  Only those with three years of consistent outstanding 
documented performance (include three years of evaluations in the nomination 
package) as a CPO should be considered.  Nominees must display good character 
and humility in their achievements.
    b.  Demonstrate community leadership through volunteer service, holding 
leadership positions within the organizations they serve. Display a genuine 
desire to be better today than they were yesterday, and better tomorrow than 
they are today.  Provide an outstanding example of character and dedication 
to service for all to emulate.
    c.  Put the needs of others before the needs or wants of themselves.  
This may be documented through evaluations and awards that show they led in 
the Navy or in their community to benefit the professional and personal 
development of others, above and beyond their primary responsibilities.
    d.  Show unyielding support of the United States of America and fellow 
service men and women by having participated in patriotic events that 
celebrate all who serve our great nation.  These events should be documented 
individually in the nomination to show the depth of participation in various 
events over the past three years.
    e.  Above all else, prove to be beyond reproach in the manner in which 
they conduct themselves, treat others, and live the Navy core values of 
Honor, Courage, and Commitment.

5.  Nominations for the peer-to-peer mentorship award can be any group of 
Sailors, 18-25 years old, who have worked effectively as a team to enhance 
their command's mission, Sailor, and community success in a manner consistent 
with the high ideals and personal example of Bob Feller.  Nominated teams of 
Sailors must consist of junior Sailors who have worked together to promote 
peer-to-peer mentorship and a reduction in Sailor destructive personal 
decision making and behavior.  Nominations must display accomplishments 
achieved during the 2015 Fiscal Year.  Nominations must:
    a.  Display how the leadership of the junior Sailors has provided an 
example that others desire to emulate and develops a desire for other Sailors 
to participate in peer-to-peer mentoring. Provide the total number of 18-25 
year old Sailors on board and the total number of Sailors involved in the 
peer-to-peer mentoring program, together with the names, rates, ranks of the 
Sailors to be recognized.  Provide the name of the group or team of Sailors 
(e.g. unit Junior Petty Officer Association, unit chapter of Coalition of
Sailors Against Destructive Decisions, unit chapter of Sailors Against Sexual 
Harassment or and Assault, or other similar groups) through which the 
nominated Sailors worked and describe the group’s 
composition/function/mission.  This NAVADMIN should not be interpreted to 
imply or extend a Department of Defense endorsement to any non-federal 
entity.
    b.  Demonstrate community leadership through volunteer service, display a 
genuine desire to be better today than they were yesterday, and better 
tomorrow than they are today.  Provide an outstanding example of character 
and dedication to service for all to emulate.  Submit letters of appreciation 
to the group, documented community service hours.
    c.  Put the needs of others before the needs or wants of themselves.  
This may be documented through awards that show they led in the Navy or in 
their community to benefit the professional and personal development of 
others, above and beyond their primary responsibilities.  Provide examples of 
special programs that were promoted with a description of the event and the 
level of participation and impact to enable greater success for all.
    d.  Show unyielding support of the United States of America and fellow 
service men and women by having participated in patriotic events that 
celebrate all who serve our great nation.  These events should be documented 
individually in the nomination to show the depth of participation in various 
events over the past three years.
    e.  Above all else, prove to be beyond reproach in the manner in which 
they conduct themselves, treat others, and live the Navy core values of 
Honor, Courage, and Commitment.

6.  Travel and lodging.  Travel to and from and lodging at the award site 
will be the responsibility of the award winner's command.  For group 
recognition awards, consideration should be given to remote participation 
and/or acceptance by a representative on behalf of the award winning group in 
order to minimize travel costs.

7.  Nominations.  Fleet, Force Master Chiefs and Echelon 2 Command Master 
Chiefs may each nominate one CPO and one Junior Sailor peer-to-peer mentoring 
group from their area of responsibility. Nominations must be on official 
letterhead and specify confidence in the nominee's professionalism as a 
representative of the Navy, and validity of the nominee's embodiment of the 
award criteria specified in paragraph 4 and 5.

8.  Nomination packages.  Nomination packages must contain four elements:
    a.  Commanding officer (CO) endorsement.  Each nominee's CO must endorse 
the nomination and express a commitment to facilitate the nominee's 
attendance at the award ceremony, if selected.
    b.  Narrative description.  Provide an accounting of the nominee's or 
group’s embodiment of the award criteria specified above.  This may include 
quantitative and qualitative data. Anecdotal evidence, such as newspaper 
articles, letters of commendation and appreciation, and other recognition may 
be included.
    c.  Nominee biography and photo or photo of the group's participants.  
The picture should include a group picture of as many participating members 
as possible.  If chosen as the award recipient, the nominee's biography and a 
high-resolution photo will be used in printed and online material used to 
publicize and document the award ceremony.  The biography should include 
hometown information as well as professional highlights and qualifications.
The biography and photo should be similar to those commonly associated with 
Navy leader biographies and official portrait photos.
    d.  Evaluations.  The CPO nomination packages should include the 
nominee's evaluations from the past three years.

9.  Submission procedures.  Nominations must be received by 6 June 2015. 
Nominations may be submitted electronically (preferred) to the point of 
contact or hard copy to the following address:   

Navy Office of Community Outreach 
Attn:  Bob Feller Act of Valor Award
5722 Integrity Drive (456-3) 
Millington, TN 38054-5045

10.  Selection process.  The Navy Office of Community Outreach (NAVCO) will 
consolidate all nominations, organize a ranking board and provide a summary 
to the Bob Feller Act of Valor Foundation. The Bob Feller Act of Valor 
Foundation will make the final selection of the winner.  The winner will be 
notified via their nominating Master Chief.  NAVCO will notify those not 
selected.

11.  Point of contact is Mr. Todd Martin at (901) 874-5805 or via e-mail at 
todd.martin(at)navy.mil.

12.  Released by Vice Admiral S. H. Swift, Director, Navy Staff.//

BT
#6883
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
