UNCLASSIFIED/
ROUTINE
R 221606Z DEC 14
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC
BT
UNCLAS 

NAVADMIN 281/14

SUBJ/U.S. NAVY FAMILY CARE POLICY//

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/DEC//
REF/A/DOC/OPNAV/27OCT09//
REF/B/DOC/DOD/07MAY10//
NARR/REF A IS OPNAVINST 1740.4D, U.S. NAVY FAMILY CARE POLICY.  REF B IS 
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE INSTRUCTION 1342.19, FAMILY CARE PLANS.//

RMKS/1.  Based on feedback from the Fleet to streamline and make the process 
more efficient, policy and procedure changes were made to the U.S. Navy 
Family Care Policy and use of Navy Standard Integrated Personnel System 
(NSIPS) and Electronic Service Record (ESR) to document completion of a 
Family Care Plan (FCP) to provide guidance and establish minimum standards 
for family care planning as outlined in references (a) and (b).

2.  The following changes will be implemented immediately and incorporated in 
the next revision to reference (a).
    a.  The definition of caregiver in reference (b) replaces the current 
definition in reference (a).  Following the definition in reference (b), a 
caregiver must be an individual who is:
        (1) Not an active-duty member in any branch of service
        (2) At least 21 years of age
        (3) Capable of self-care and care of dependent family members
        (4) Agreeable, preferably in writing, to care for one or more family 
members during the absence of the service member for indefinite periods to 
ensure the service member is available for worldwide duties.
    b.  The FCP requires that the service member appoint a person to care for 
a minor child during periods of absence.  Service members who have custody of 
a child and/or dependent adult from a prior relationship need to complete a 
FCP, even if they have remarried and plan to have the new spouse care for the 
minor child during periods of absence. If the person appointed is not the 
other biological parent, the FCP may violate the custody/visitation rights of 
the other biological parent. The appointed person in the FCP may be in 
violation of the law by taking the child.  In many instances the completion 
of the FCP is just the beginning of the process necessary to ensure the 
custody arrangement of a dependent.  The FCP is not recognized by civilian 
courts as a lawfully enforceable custody determination.  The only document 
that is recognized as lawfully enforceable by the civilian courts is a 
properly issued court order incorporating the terms and conditions of the 
FCP.  Sailors are strongly encouraged to have all Family Care Plan 
Certificates (NAVPERS 1740/6) and Family Care Plan Arrangement Forms (NAVPERS 
1740/7) reviewed by a legal assistance attorney.  The information and 
signature requirements in PART II, Caregiver Acknowledgement, and PART IV, 
Consenting Natural or Adoptive Parent, on the NAVPERS 1740/6 are no longer 
required to be completed.
    c.  Command Certification, Part V of the NAVPERS 1740/6, may be delegated 
to an O-4 or above by the commanding officer.  This command certification 
signature shall not be delegated to the FCP Coordinator.
    d.  Annual certification will be entered with date completed in block 20, 
additional comments, of the NAVPERS 1740/6.  The annual certification shall 
be signed by the member and commanding officer or delegated O-4 or above.

3.  The following changes to the FCP process, leveraging NSIPS tracking and 
reporting capability, will provide commanders a more efficient management 
tool to track personnel in this category.  NSIPS can identify current onboard 
and prospective gains requiring a FCP.
    a.  Members who are required to have a current FCP on file shall make 
data entries in the self service account in NSIPS.  The use of NSIPS allows 
reporting and viewing of an individual*s current date on the NAVPERS 1740/6 
and the expiration date.  This process change will facilitate more effective 
oversight of the FCP.
    b.  The functionality currently available in the member self service 
account in NSIPS enables users to identify if a FCP document is on file and 
allows entering of the FCP election and expiration dates.  Instructions for 
afloat units with NSIPS servers are available at
http://www.public.navy.mil/bupers-
npc/support/21st_Century_Sailor/readiness/Pages/FamilyCarePlan.aspx.
    c.  NSIPS also identifies service members who require a FCP.  The service 
member is responsible for updating the Record of Emergency Data/Dependency 
Application (Page 2), and if this information indicates the service member is 
a single parent, military married to military with one or more dependent 
children, or service member has dependent parent(s), then NSIPS identifies 
them as a member requiring a FCP.  If a FCP election date has expired or is 
left blank, the member will receive an e-mail notification with instructions 
on what actions should be taken.  The e-mail to the service member is sent to 
the official email address which can be updated by the member using their 
self service ESR account on shore NSIPS.
    d.  The initial date in block 22c will not be reset in NSIPS unless a new 
NAVPERS 1740/6 is submitted.  The annual certification shall be entered in 
block 20 and dated.  The date will be used to establish an anniversary date 
12 months out for re-certification in the member self service account in 
NSIPS.
    e.  The command has access to reports through the NSIPS Career 
Information Management System (CIMS).  CIMS is currently able to provide FCP 
status on all enlisted personnel onboard.  A system change request has been 
submitted for NSIPS to provide both officer and enlisted status.  Commanding 
officers should use this capability to assist them in ensuring all FCP 
requirements are met.

4.  Instructions on FCP email, updating NSIPS, and NSIPS ESR as well as 
copies of references (a) and (b), NAVPERS Form 1740/6, and NAVPERS Form 
1740/7 are available at
http://www.public.navy.mil/bupers-
npc/support/21st_Century_Sailor/readiness/Pages/FamilyCarePlan.aspx.

5.  Point of contact is Mr. William K. Harris, OPNAV N170C, at (901) 874-
4413/DSN 882 or via e-mail at navy.familycareplan(at)navy.mil.

6.  This NAVADMIN will remain in effect until superseded or canceled, 
whichever occurs first.

7.  Released by Vice Admiral W. F. Moran, N1.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
