UNCLASSIFIED
ROUTINE
R 051649Z AUG 15
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC
BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 182/15

SUBJ/MATERNITY AND CONVALESCENT LEAVE POLICY (CORRECTED COPY)//

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/AUG//
REF/A/MSG/SECNAV WASHINGTON DC/021900ZJUL15//
REF/B/DOC/OPNAV/14JUN07//
REF/C/DOC/COMNAVPERSCOM//
REF/D/DOC/OPNAV/11JUL11//
REF/E/DOC/USD(P&R)/16JUN09//
REF/F/DOC/10 U.S.C.//
NARR/REF A IS ALNAV 053/15, DEPARTMENT OF THE NAVY MATERNITY AND CONVALESCENT 
LEAVE POLICY.  REF B IS OPNAVINST 6000.1C, NAVY GUIDELINES CONCERNING 
PREGNANCY AND PARENTHOOD.  REF C IS NAVPERS 15560D, NAVAL MILITARY PERSONNEL 
MANUAL.  REF D IS OPNAVINST 6110.1J, PHYSICAL READINESS PROGRAM.  REF E IS 
DODINST 1327.06, LEAVE AND LIBERTY POLICY AND PROCEDURES.  REF F IS SECTION 
701 OF TITLE 10, U.S. CODE, ENTITLEMENT AND ACCUMULATION.

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN provides policy and implementation guidance for 
changes to maternity and convalescent leave announced in reference (a).  This 
NAVADMIN will be followed by updates to references (b) through (d), including 
the release of a new MILPERSMAN article addressing maternity leave.

2.  Effective immediately, commanding officers (COs) shall grant up to 126 
days of convalescent leave to a member who has given birth, as requested by 
the service member.  This policy is retroactive for eligible members who gave 
birth to a child on or after 1 January 2015.

3.  The 126 days of convalescent leave includes the 42-day convalescent 
period currently authorized as maternity leave in reference (e) to be taken 
immediately following the mothers release from the medical facility after the 
birth of the child.  The additional leave, up to 84 days, does not need to be 
taken consecutively but must be used within the first year after the childs 
birth.  Each member eligible for this leave shall be permitted to use the 
entire balance of the leave within the time prescribed.

4.  Definitions
    a.  Maternity Leave.  Maternity leave shall be considered the 42-day 
convalescent leave period (and any extensions driven by medical necessity) 
beginning after the mothers discharge from the hospital.
    b.  Additional Maternity Leave (AML).  AML shall be considered the period 
of up to 84 days of convalescent leave after maternity leave.

5.  Eligibility.  AML eligibility is limited to a birth mother on active duty 
at the time of delivery who retains custody of her child.

6.  AML may be taken in multiple blocks of time within one year of the 
child’s birth.  COs shall grant the entire 126 days of leave upon request of 
eligible service members.  If a member does not elect to take AML in a single 
block, COs will make every effort to accommodate members requests on timing 
of AML with members encouraged to create mutually agreeable, individualized 
leave plans with their chains of command.

7.  Additional Policy Guidance and Criteria.
    a.  To ensure all birth mothers have the equivalent of 12 weeks of AML, 
AML shall be calculated based on work days.  For example, using the standard 
42-day maternity leave period, members who normally work 7 days per week will 
receive 84 working days of AML; those who normally work 5 days per week will 
receive 60 working days of AML. COs shall ensure that members are granted the 
appropriate AML based on work schedule.
    b.  If a second child is born prior to a member using all AML from a 
previous birth, the amount of maternity leave and AML resets up to 126 days.  
Maternity leave and AML consist of up to 126 days for single and multiple 
births (i.e., the birth of twins would not double the leave, etc.).
    c.  Unused AML will be lost upon separation from active duty.
    d.  Reserve service members who give birth while on definite active duty 
recall or mobilization orders will be extended on active duty at their 
request for the purposes of taking maternity leave or AML.
    e.  Maternity leave and AML cannot be taken during a permanent change of 
station.  Maternity leave and AML shall be taken before out-processing from 
the old command or after in-processing to the new command.
    f.  For the purpose of the Physical Readiness Program, the intent of 
reference (d), paragraph 6a(3) of enclosure (1), remains unchanged.
Pregnancy status is defined from the time pregnancy is confirmed by a 
military health care provider (HCP) or civilian HCP in cases of 
inaccessibility to an MTF, until the end of the six month period following 
maternity leave (postpartum) as defined in paragraph 4a above.

8.  Leave Accrual and Carry-over.  Members may not always be able to take all 
available leave.  Exceptions to the 60-day maximum accrual of annual leave 
per references (c) and (e) will not be granted because AML-use precluded full 
use of annual leave.  Annual leave in excess of 60 days will be lost on 1 
October 2015, unless subject to special leave accrual.  To prevent loss of 
annual leave, members are encouraged to request annual leave in excess of 60 
days prior to using AML, and COs shall make every effort to accommodate use 
of this leave at the members request.

9.  Tracking of Maternity Leave and AML.  A systems change request for the 
Navy Standard Integrated Personnel System (NSIPS) has been submitted to add 
an option for maternity leave, which will be charged as convalescent leave.  
This system change is expected to be complete in December 2015.
    a.  Prior to the system change, members shall request maternity leave and 
AML as convalescent leave in NSIPS and commands will be required to manually 
track maternity leave and AML to ensure 126 days is not exceeded.
    b.  Once the maternity leave option is available in NSIPS, members will 
request the maternity leave type for both maternity leave and AML.  A 
maternity leave type will also be added to the e-Leave Type Report in NSIPS.  
Command Leave Administrators shall run the report regularly to ensure the 126 
days of maternity leave and AML is not exceeded.
    c.  Commands not on e-Leave within NSIPS will manually track maternity 
leave and AML until the command goes live on e-Leave and system change 
request is completed.

10.  Point of contact for this matter is LT Amy Younger, N130C2, at (703) 
604-5477/DSN 664 or via e-mail at NXAG_N130C@NAVY.MIL.

11.  Released by Vice Admiral W. F. Moran, N1.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
