RTTUZYUW RUEWMCS0000 3030147-UUUU--RUCRNAD

ZNR UUUUU
R 300156Z OCT 13
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//
TO NAVADMIN
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//
UNCLAS//N01420//
NAVADMIN 281/13

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/OCT// 

SUBJ/NAVY RESERVE PROMOTIONS TO THE PERMANENT GRADES OF CAPTAIN, COMMANDER, 
LIEUTENANT COMMANDER, LIEUTENANT, AND CHIEF WARRANT OFFICERS IN THE LINE AND 
STAFF CORPS// 

RMKS/1.  Congratulations to the following officers on their promotions to the 
ranks indicated in this message.  This NAVADMIN is the authority for 
effecting permanent officer promotions on the dates indicated.  Columns read 
name and designator
                       PERMANENT PROMOTION TO CAPTAIN
              CAPTAIN LINE AND STAFF SENATE CONFIRMATION DATE 
  LINE 6 JUNE 2013                       STAFF 6 JUNE 2013
                        DOR/EFF DATE 1 NOVEMBER 2013
 Flanagan David W       1325         Grant Jeffrey Dean     1317
 Hanna Scott V          1327         Hardegen Robert Paul   1315
 Mcneill Kenneth        1317         Taglavore Patrick B    1115
                      PERMANENT PROMOTION TO COMMANDER
                        DOR/EFF DATE 1 JUNE 2013
 Dean Michael B         1655      
                        DOR/EFF DATE 1 NOVEMBER 2013
 Alderman Eric John     1315         Allen Clifford Jack    1315
 Brady Charles Benton I 1317         Clark Paul William     1315
 Cole Sandra K          2905         Condon Christopher M   1305
 Costales Yvette Aquino 1835         Degand Robert Lee Jr   1315
 Feith Ries Joseph      3105         Gee Sharlene Susanne   2305
 Gladwell Richard L Jr  1315         Hersch Matthew James   3105
 Heuisler John Isaac    1325         Lapointe Matthew Eric  1115
 Malecha Elizabeth Anne 1325         Merton Robert Stephen  1317
 Roquemore Kimberly Day 2905         Rosenberg David Barukh 2105
 Schmidt Bryan Timothy  2205         Seeburger Joseph Micha 1317
 Weissman Jason Louis   2505         Wells Jason Henry      1315
 Yao Peter              1317      
                 PERMANENT PROMOTION TO LIEUTENANT COMMANDER
                        DOR/EFF DATE 1 NOVEMBER 2013
 Ahn Charles Seung      1815         Alexander Brian Porter 1325
 Bear Brooke Colin      2105         Beltran Stephen M      1465
 Brinser Andrew William 1835         Buls Nicholas J        1115
 Burns James Walter     3105         Byrne Brendan Terence  2105
 Campbell Colin Micah   1665         Carr Scott Christopher 1315
 Chow Earl Randolph     5105         Colie Stuart Edgar     1665
 Defreitas Gavin Julien 1325         Elmasry Tarek Sameh    1315
 Forde Dillet A         1117         Goodenough John Stuart 1315
 Harrison Christopher M 1317         Henson Jonathan Andrew 3105
 Hoeck John Wayne       1315         Holmes Dennis L Jr     1117
 Hulbert Eric William   1315         Jarvis Jason Todd      1315
 Jefferson Mason Andrew 1115         Knepper Benjamin Rober 2105
 Lattimore Theresa Brow 2905         Leavitt Austin Alan    1315
 Lenert Ronald Cameron  2505         Liptak Armando         1835
 Lucas Brian K          1115         Lumpkin Glenn Paul Jr  3105
 Lundy David William    1317         Mariano Matthew Michae 1315
 Mason Justin Andrew    1315         Morgan Shawn Peter     1317
 Okundaye Otabor Enata  2205         Park Jason Lee         2105
 Payne Jason Augusta    1315         Perales Judith Carbon  2905
 Peske Thomas William   1655         Phillips Travis S      1835
 Pilato Tobe Adonna     2305         Pintauro Christopher W 1325
 Pizzino Salvatore Mari 2205         Range Frederick Charle 2905
 Reyes Robert Catane    1835         Roach Ryan Thomas      1665
 Rutledge Paul Andrew   1325         Shetter Christopher Br 1325
 Smith Eric Stewart     1317         Strang Dennis D        1115
 Trainor Patrick Joseph 1825         Umemura Nobushige      1315
 Vargas Daniel R        2905         White Justin Lawrence  1315
 Wigginton Paul Clifton 4105      
                      PERMANENT PROMOTION TO LIEUTENANT
                        DOR/EFF DATE 1 OCTOBER 2012
 Smith Brian Conley     1115
                        DOR/EFF DATE 1 NOVEMBER 2012
 Porter Mario Vandale   3105      
                        DOR/EFF DATE 1 NOVEMBER 2013
 Anzaldua Reynaldo Jr   1815         Bagwell Synlethia L    6455
 Blascovich Angelo      6495         Burnham Gregory Carlet 6495
 Carr Michael David     6495         Clark Phillip Patrick  3105
 Conyers John Martin    2905         Doran Sean Patrick     6455
 Doty Mark Allen        6495         Emerick Jeffrey Owen   6495
 Ewart Robert Woodson   6455         Fiala Leslie Ann       2305
 Fields Charles Conway  3105         Fiki Morad Hisham      1305
 Fiske Jessica Anne     2305         Fronek Roger Lee       6455
 Gaborko Randy Edward   6455         Geertman Steven Gerrit 6495
 Geovanni Alexandria Ly 4105         Graham Christopher Lee 2305
 Greco Frank Joseph     6495         Grove Justin Alexander 4105
 Hard Shannon Elizabeth 2905         Hlass Lacey Hannah     2905
 Holtz Robert Francis   6495         Howse Brandon Edward   1665
 Johns Thomas Charles   6495         Jones Robert Neil      1835
 Leftwich Howell Winton 6495         Mendez Bryce Hookela P 2305
 Miller Andrew David    4105         Monahan Daniel Joseph  6415
 Morales Angel Luis     6455         Muma Melanie Kim       2905
 Myers Bridget Lynn     2905         Neuens Jami Michelle   2905
 Novak Jon William      6495         Nwankwo Ruth Ngozichuk 2905
 Patterson Esther Mauri 2905         Peterson Jeffrey Micha 6495
 Randall George Frankli 6495         Rinaldi Guy Daniel     6495
 Taylor Dustin Wayne    1167         Turpin Jason Edward    6495
 Wagner John Thomas     2305         Wortkoetter Jason Robe 6495
              PERMANENT PROMOTION TO CHIEF WARRANT OFFICER, W-5 No Officers 
Promoted in this Category.
              PERMANENT PROMOTION TO CHIEF WARRANT OFFICER, W-4 No Officers 
Promoted in this Category.
              PERMANENT PROMOTION TO CHIEF WARRANT OFFICER, W-3
                        DOR/EFF DATE 1 NOVEMBER 2013
 Blackwell Michael Jame 7418         Doran William Denis    7118
 Marrow James Patten    7328         Moran Elixalen         7168
 Rios Alberto A         7118      

2.  If a selected officer does not decline his or her promotion in writing 
prior to his or her projected date of rank (noted above in paragraph 1), that 
officer is considered to have accepted the promotion on the date indicated.  
An officer who chooses to decline his or her promotion must submit the 
declination in writing to COMNAVPERSCOM (PERS-831), prior to the effective 
date indicated above.

3.  The commanding officer, the Secretary of the Navy or his designee, have 
the authority to delay projected appointments.  Upon the exercise of a delay, 
the officer shall be notified in writing before the effective date of the 
appointment, and not be tendered the appointment.  The delay authority will 
immediately forward the recommendation to delay with supporting documentation 
to COMNAVPERSCOM (PERS-83), copy to COMNAVPERSCOM (PERS-831).

4.  Prepare NAVPERS FORM 1421/7 (Rev 02-13).  Use this NAVADMIN as ref (a).  
Use section 14308 of title 10, U.S. Code as ref (b) for permanent lieutenants 
and above. Use 12242 of title 10, U.S. Code as ref (b) for chief warrant 
officers. Mail the completed form to COMNAVPERSCOM (PERS-831).

5.  Officers should review OPNAVINST 1811.3 for minimum time in grade 
requirements for purposes of voluntary retirement.  Full time support 
officers and those officers temporarily on active-duty anticipating release 
from active-duty under SECNAVINST 1920.6C may accept promotion without 
incurring any additional active-duty obligation.

6.  New photographs are required for all officers within three months after 
acceptance of promotion.  See MILPERSMAN 1070-180 for specific requirements.

7.  Released by Vice Admiral W. F. Moran, N1.//

BT
#2390
NNNN

