UNCLASSIFIED
ROUTINE
R 181828Z DEC 17
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC
BT
UNCLAS
PASS TO OFFICE CODES:
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//

NAVADMIN 298/17

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/DEC//

SUBJ/OFFICER AND ENLISTED APPLICATIONS BEING ACCEPTED BY NAVY FLIGHT 
DEMONSTRATION SQUADRON (BLUE ANGELS) FOR 2019//

REF/A/DOC/CNATRA/8AUG14//
NARR/REF A IS CNATRAINST 1301.4M, OFFICER APPLICATION PROCEDURES FOR THE BLUE 
ANGELS.//

RMKS/1.  The United States Navy Flight Demonstration Squadron (NFDS) Blue 
Angels will select one executive officer (XO), three F/A-18 demonstration 
pilots (both Navy and Marine Corps pilots are encouraged to apply), one naval 
flight officer for the NFDS Events Coordinator for the 2019-2020 show seasons 
(both Navy and Marine Corps officers are encouraged to apply), one Marine 
Corps C-130 demonstration pilot for the 2019-2021 show seasons, one naval 
flight surgeon for the 2019-2020 show seasons, one administrative officer and 
one supply officer for the 2019-2020 show seasons.  XO candidates should 
submit applications in line with reference (a) no later than 28 February 
2018.  All other officers should submit applications in line with reference 
(a) no later than 30 April 2018. All applicants shall contact their 
detailer/monitor prior to applying to ensure adequate timing to complete a 2 
or 3 year tour without impacting career milestones.  Manpower Management 
Officer Assignments (MMOA) will release a separate MARADMIN that outlines 
Marine applicant eligibility requirements.  Final selections for XO will be 
made in May 2018 and July 2018 for other officer applicants.

2.  Applicants should be career oriented, active-duty Navy and Marine Corps 
officers with the following specific qualifications:
    a.  XO applicants must be a naval aviator or naval flight officer with 
the rank of commander.  They should have 1,750 flight hours with a background 
in carrier aviation.
    b.  F/A-18 demonstration pilot applicants must be carrier qualified 
tactical jet pilots with approximately 1,250 hours of jet flight time by 30 
September of the year applying and have completed an operational fleet tour.
    c.  Events coordinator applicants must be a naval flight officer and must 
have completed an operational fleet tour.
    d.  Marine Corps C-130 demonstration pilot applicants must have 1,200 
hours of flight time and hold an aircraft commander rating in the C-
130F/R/T/J model aircraft.
    e.  Flight surgeon applicants must be qualified naval flight surgeons and 
be on, or have completed, a tour as a naval flight surgeon.
    f.  Administrative officer applicants must be qualified limited duty 
officer/chief warrant officer administrative officers (641X/741X), 
(LCDR/LT/LTJG/CWO4/CWO3) and be on, or have completed an operational fleet 
tour.
    g.  Supply Officer applicants must be designated as naval aviation supply 
officers (651x/310x) (LT/CWO3) and be on, or have completed an operational 
fleet tour.

3.  Selectees will be approved by Bureau of Naval Personnel/MMOA prior to 
public notification.  Navy/Marine Corps pilots will be required to remain on 
active-duty for two years following completion of their assignment with the 
Blue Angels.

4.  Reference (a), delineates application procedures.
    a.  All applications submitted via mail through 1 March 2018 should be 
sent to:
    Commanding Officer
    Navy Flight Demonstration Squadron
    Attn  LT Damon Kroes
    PO Box 760
    Seeley CA 92273-0760
    b.  Applications being submitted from 2 March 2018 through 30 April 2018 
should be sent to:
    Commanding Officer
    Navy Flight Demonstration Squadron
    Attn  LT Damon Kroes
    390 San Carlos Road Suite A
    Pensacola FL 32508-5508
    c.  Applications may also be delivered in person beginning 19 March 2018.

5.  For additional information, visit the Blue Angels website at
www.blueangels.navy.mil or contact the Blue Angels Applicants
Officer, LT Damon Kroes, in Pensacola, FL, at (850)452-4650/DSN 922,
or in El Centro, CA, (January thru mid-March) at
(760)339-2509/DSN 645 or via email at damon.kroes(at)navy.mil.

6.  This NAVADMIN also announces requirements and solicits enlisted 
applications.  Applications must be postmarked no later than 1 May 2018.  
Selection results will be available no later than June 2018.  Personnel with 
a projected rotation date of November 2018 through April 2019 are eligible, 
but others may apply with command and detailer approval.  Personnel selected 
will detach from their present command in September 2018 and report in early 
October 2018.

7.  Open E5/E6 billets within the following Navy ratings are eligible:  AD, 
AM, AME, AE, AT, AS, AZ, PR, MC, LS, YN, PS, NC and HM (Navy Enlisted 
Classification 8406).  Additionally, applications for chief petty officer 
billets in the MMCPO (8300), AE, AD and AM rates are being accepted.  
Platform specific experience is not a requirement to apply.

8.  Personnel selected for this unique and demanding duty represent the 
hundreds of thousands of Sailors and Marines serving throughout the United 
States and abroad.  Applicants must meet the requirements listed below to be 
considered for duty with the Blue Angels (waivers are not normally 
considered).
    a.  Must not be in receipt of permanent change of station orders before 
final selections are made in June 2018.
    b.  No non-judicial punishment or courts-martial convictions in the last 
36 months.
    c.  No alcohol-related incidents (civil or military) in the last 36 
months.  Driving under the influence/driving while intoxicated convictions 
within the last 5 years are disqualifying.
    d.  No financial instability/command directed counseling in the last 36 
months.  Applicants must be eligible for a government credit card (this is 
not waiverable).
    e.  No physical fitness assessment failures in the last 36 months.  
Personnel who have had medical waivers in the last 24 months will be 
considered on a case-by-case basis only.
    f.  Visible tattoos while wearing the enlisted service uniform must be in 
compliance with uniform regulations.
    g.  Must possess a valid and current license to drive.
    h.  Re-enlistment approval is not required to submit an application.

9.  Interested candidates meeting the above requirements must first submit a 
fully completed Enlisted Personnel Action Request (NAVPERS 1306/7) and 
Special Program Screening Form (NAVPERS 1306/92) as directed in MILPERSMAN 
1306-919 to their respective rating detailer via their commanding officer.  
After submission of NAVPERS 1306/7 and NAVPERS 1306/92 to their detailer, 
applicants must submit an application to NFDS using the following criteria 
(ensure all telephone numbers, mailing address and e-mail addresses are 
included):
    a.  Commanding officer signed letter of endorsement on command 
letterhead, which must include a statement on military appearance and 
tattoos, an evaluation of the speaking ability of the member, the demeanor of 
the member, professional knowledge and leadership skills.
    b.  Copy of NAVPERS 1306/7.
    c.  Original NAVPERS 1306/92.
    d.  Include copies of last five evaluations.
    e.  Provide official 5 x 7 inch photograph (front, side, back) in 
enlisted service uniform uncovered (Service Khaki for E7-E9 applicants).
    f.  Common application errors include lack of detailed contact 
information, unsigned NAVPERS 1306/7 and NAVPERS 1306/92, NAVPERS1306/7 not 
sent to the detailer, no commanding officer endorsement, missing evaluations, 
photos not included, packages sent to the detailer rather than the NFDS and 
earliest and latest transfer dates not filled out in remarks section NAVPERS 
1306/7.

10.  Enlisted Applications may be sent via e-mail to michael.w.gallaway 
(at)navy.mil or by mail to:

    Commanding Officer
    Navy Flight Demonstration Squadron
    Attn  AZC(AW) Michael Gallaway
    390 San Carlos Road Suite A
    Pensacola FL 32508-5508

11.  The medical record of the applicant will be reviewed during the 
application process.

12.  Candidates should call the NFDS 2 weeks after mailing their application 
to verify receipt and to schedule an interview.  All personnel currently 
stationed in the continental United States, including those who may be 
deployed but will return prior to final selections are highly encouraged to 
interview in person, but not required.  Funding for travel is provided by the 
member or their parent command.  NFDS does not provide funding for 
interviews. Personnel permanently assigned outside the continental United 
States (including Hawaii and Alaska), or while deployed, will interview via 
telephone.  Personal interviews are conducted at Naval Air Facility El 
Centro, CA, from January to March.  Interviews are conducted at Naval Air 
Station Pensacola, FL, or any show site from mid-March through May.  Last 
week to interview will be 8-12 May 2018.

13.  Those individuals not selected will be afforded the opportunity of two 
Career Management System Interactive Detailing (CMS-ID) applications.

14.  Point of contact is AZC(AW) Michael Gallaway at  (760)339-2434/DSN 658, 
from 3 January 2018 to 14 March 2018, at (850) 452-3478/DSN 922, after 15 
March 2018, or via e-mail at michael.w.gallaway(at)navy.mil.  For further 
information, visit the Blue Angels website at www.blueangels.navy.mil.

15.  This NAVADMIN will remain in effect until superseded or canceled.

16.  Released by Vice Admiral R. P. Burke, N1.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
