UNCLASSIFIED

ROUTINE

R 191647Z SEP 18

FM CNO WASHINGTON DC

TO NAVADMIN

BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 230/18

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC//DNS/SEP//

SUBJ/2018 FEDS FEED FAMILIES FOOD DRIVE CAMPAIGN//

REF/A/DOC/USECDEF MEMO/08AUG18//

REF/B/DOC/USDASEC/15JUL18//

REF/C/DOC/USECNAV MEMO/21AUG18//

NARR/REF A IS DEPUTY SECRETARY OF DEFENSE MEMO IN SUPPORT OF FEDS FEEDS 
FAMILIES (FFF) ANNUAL FOOD DRIVE.  REF B IS UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF 
AGRICULTURE MEMO ANNOUNCING THE 2018 FFF FOOD DRIVE.  REF C IS UNDER 
SECRETARY OF THE NAVY MEMO IN SUPPORT OF FEDS FEEDS FAMILIES (FFF) ANNUAL 
FOOD DRIVE.//


RMKS/1.  In support of the 10th annual "Feds Feed Families" (FFF) food drive, 
the Under Secretary of Defense has requested Department of Defense (DoD) 
support through donations of non-perishable food items for distribution to 
local food banks nationwide.


2.  Commander, Navy Installations Command (CNIC) is designated as the Navy's 
lead organization for this initiative.  The FFF food drive is scheduled to 
run through 18 October 2018 and is an excellent opportunity for our Sailors 
and civilians to support their communities.


3.  Concept of operations:

    a.  Food collection data:

        (1) Religious offering funds may be donated to non-profit 501(c)(3) 
food banks if clearly contributing to the FFF campaign, stating "Department 
of the Navy contribution."

        (2) DoD has approved a dollar to food conversion rate for this year's 
FFF campaign of "$1 equals 3 lbs."

        (3) Receiving charities can include organizations such as community 
food banks, local Red Cross pantries, Salvation Army food kitchens and the 
like.

    b.  Navy commands are to designate a FFF command representative to 
coordinate this initiative with their nearest installation Chaplain.

    c.  FFF drop off and collection points are to be established throughout 
each Navy installation, by either the FFF command representative or 
installation Chaplain.

    d.  Each Monday, installation FFF representatives will collect weekly 
reports from their tenant command FFF representatives and report consolidated 
numbers (lbs) to region FFF Chaplains by close of business Tuesday.

    e.  Region Chaplains upload weekly progress report compiled from their 
subordinate units using the "2018 FFF Reporting Format Template," located at:
https://g2.cnic.navy.mil/tscnichq/RP/Chaplains/FFF/default.aspx.

    f.  The weekly report template includes the following info:

        (1) Command participation information (names, location).

        (2) Weight, in pounds, of food collected.

        (3) If applicable, food bank recipient.

        (4) Other info:

            (a) Public affairs articles and photos.

            (b) Individuals/teams to be recognized/thanked for participation.

            (c) Comments, concerns, requests for facilitation.


4.  The point of contact is Mr. Ray Sutton who can be reached at e-mail:  
ray.sutton(AT)navy.mil, (703) 571-2098, and CDR Paul Rumery, who can be 
reached at e-mail:  paul.rumery(AT)navy.mil,
(202) 433-4057/6990, and DSN:  288-4057/6990.


5.  Released by Mrs. Steffanie B. Easter, Director, Navy Staff.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//

