UNCLASSIFIED

ROUTINE

R 281725Z FEB 17

FM CNO WASHINGTON DC

TO NAVADMIN

INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC

BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 48/17

MSGID/NAVADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N4/FEB

SUBJ/ADMIRAL STAN ARTHUR AWARDS-CALL FOR CY 2016 NOMINATIONS//

REF/A/INST/OPNAVINST 5305.8C/22FEB2010//

AMPN/REF A IS ADMIRAL STAN ARTHUR AWARDS FOR LOGISTICS EXCELLENCE.// POC/LCDR 
Jeretta Dillon/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N412/TEL:  (703)695-4836
/EMAIL:  JERETTA.DILLON(AT)NAVY.MIL//

RMKS/1.  Per ref (a), nominations are requested for the annual Admiral Stan 
Arthur Awards.  Submit all nominations, not to exceed two pages, using 
OPNAVINST 5305/8 (Rev Oct 2013), at
https://navalforms.documentservices.dla.mil/formsDir/_OPNAV_5305_8
_4921.pdf.
Categories are:
    a.  Military Logistician of the Year
    b.  Civilian Logistician of the Year
    c.  Logistics Team(s) of the Year

2.  In line with the Navys Design for maintaining Maritime Superiority, and 
emphasis on innovation and high velocity learning, the Admiral Stan Arthur 
Award will recognize Navy military and civilian individuals and team(s) whose 
contributions and suggestions during calendar year 2016 have:
    a.  Demonstrably and materially enhanced the combat capability of
    the operating forces
    b.  Advanced technology, products, services and/or processes
    c.  Resolved major logistics issues
    d.  Developed innovative logistics that merit adoption for
    standard use
    e.  Had a positive effect on Joint operations

3.  Nominees may be involved in any and all phases of Navy acquisition, 
operational logistics, and Joint Services logistics, from early life-cycle 
planning to in-service logistics support.  Nominees may come from a variety 
of communities, to include, but not limited to:  civil engineering, supply, 
medical, fuel, ordnance and maintenance.  Contractors may be included on team 
award submissions, but will not receive monetary awards.

4.  Individuals and team(s) selected to receive the Admiral Stan Arthur Award 
for calendar year 2016 will be announced via Naval message.  The award 
ceremony, conducted via video teleconference or in person, is planned for 
July 2017.

5.  Award selectees receive the following:
    a.  Plaque and certificate for individual category and team(s)
    b.  $5,000 for Military Logistician of the Year
    c.  $5,000 for Civilian Logistician of the Year
    d.  $10,000 for the winning team to share among its military and
    civilian members

6.  Submit nominations, via Echelon II commands, to Director, Logistics 
Business Programs Division (OPNAV N41) NLT COB Monday, 24 April 2017.  
Echelon II commands may submit a total of three nominations, no more than one 
per award category.  To receive confirmation of package arrival, nomination 
package must include e -mail address and phone number of Echelon II POC.  
Packages for individual military and civilian nominees must include a one-
page biography with a professional head-and-shoulders picture embedded.

7.  Released by VADM P. H. Cullom, N4.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//

