UNCLASSIFIED
ADMINISTRATIVE MESSAGE  
ROUTINE
R 282311Z APR 16 ZYB
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 102/16

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N98/MAY/

SUBJ/NAVY ATTENDANCE AT THE 9-13 MAY 2016 ANNUAL NAVAL HELICOPTER ASSOCIATION 
(NHA) SYMPOSIUM//

REF/A/MSGID:LTR/SECNAV/DMY:23072015/NOTAL//
REF/B/MSGID:DOC/DOD 5500.07-R/DMY:17112011//
REF/C/MSGID:DOC/DOD/29SEP2012//
NARR/REF A IS SECNAV CONFERENCE APPROVAL MEMORANDUM. REF B IS DOD PUBLICATION 
5500.07-R JOINT ETHICS REGULATION REGARDING OFFICIAL PARTICIPATION IN NON-
FEDERAL ENTITIES.  REF C IS DOD MEMORANDUM IMPLEMENTATION OF CONFERENCE 
OVERSIGHT REQUIREMENTS AND DELEGATION OF CONFERENCE APPROVAL AUTHORITY.//
POC/SHAWN BAILEY/CDR/UNIT:HSC-3/-/EMAIL:shawn.t.bailey@navy.mil//
POC/SEAN ROCHELEAU/CDR/UNIT:CNAP N40/-/EMAIL:sean.rocheleau@navy.mil
/TEL:619-545-4491//
POC/ANDREW BERNHARDT/AIRLIFT/UNIT: HSC-2/-/EMAIL:andrew.bernhardt@navy.mil//
POC/DANIELLE STONE/AIRLIFT/UNIT: HSC-3/-/EMAIL: danielle.stone@navy.mil//
POC/JASON HELLAUER/GROUND TRANSPORT/UNIT: HSC-2/-
/EMAIL:jason.hellauer@navy.mil//

RMKS/1.  The Naval Helicopter Association (NHA) will hold its annual 
symposium in Norfolk, VA at the Sheraton Norfolk Waterside Hotel from 9-13 
May 2016.  The theme for symposium '16 is "THE FUTURE OF VERTICAL LIFT".

2.  The Naval Helicopter Association membership consists of over 3,000 active 
duty, reserve, and retired military members dedicated to the goal of 
enhancing the professionalism of military members working in the field of 
naval aviation.  The annual symposium provides the opportunity for a wide 
discussion on a broad range of professional and career issues of interest to 
its extensive and diverse membership.  It is a forum in which attendees can 
address and work together to present innovative solutions to today's issues 
and tomorrow's naval aviation challenges.

3.  Per reference (a), a limited use of government funds to attend the NHA 
Symposium 2016 has been approved.  The following restrictions apply:
   a.  Local attendance at no cost to the Department of Navy (DON) is 
authorized with supervisors' approval.
   b.  Travel, lodging and per diem have been approved for a select number of 
participants, award recipients and/or those personnel invited to participate 
on panels in a temporary additional (TAD) status on cost orders as approved 
in reference (a).  Commander, Naval Air Force, Pacific (COMNAVAIRPAC) is 
responsible for tracking all TAD attendees for the DON.  Attendees from 
commands outside COMNAVAIRPAC shall contact the POCs listed above prior to 
obligating TAD funds to ensure total cost to DON remains within pre-approved 
guidelines. Personnel approved still need to gain TAD authorization from the 
First Flag Officer in their respective chain of command.  (Note: Registration 
on the NHA website does not constitute approval to travel using funds 
authorized in reference (a); travel must be coordinated with COMNAVAIRPAC).
   c.  Rental cars are not authorized for attendees traveling by government 
air or on funded TAD orders.  Questions regarding Norfolk, VA area 
transportation should be forward to POCs.
   d.  Personnel on funded orders are required to attend all official agenda 
events.  If, and only if, attendance does not interfere with the official 
agenda, attendees on funded orders may attend social events offered in 
conjunction with the symposium at their personal expense.
   e.  All Commanding Officers are authorized to grant non-funded, no cost 
TAD orders at their discretion.
   f.  COMNAVAIRPAC has been authorized airlifts from San Diego, Pensacola 
and Jacksonville.  Attendees on funded orders must travel via military 
airlift if available.
   g.  COMNAVAIRPAC and Commander Naval Air Force Atlantic (COMNAVAIRLANT) 
POCs will coordinate and consolidate airlift requests for respective type 
wings.
   h.  Lodging and meals will be reimbursed to the attendees in a TAD status 
only at the authorized per diem rate.  Attendees must annotate their travel 
vouchers if meals are provided by the conference host.
   i.  Attendee and travel authorizing officials must be mindful of the need 
to be good stewards of taxpayer dollars in attending the symposium, and are 
directed to follow the guidance in references (b) and (c) when authorizing 
travel.  TAD orders may cover expenses incident to attendance and 
participation in the symposium, including transportation, per diem, and 
lodging fees.  If applicable, attendees are required to file tax exemption 
forms to reduce lodging expenses.

4.  Tactical and training aircraft are not to be used for transportation to 
or from the symposium.

5.  Questions regarding the NHA symposium 2016 travel policy should be 
addressed to COMNAVAIRPAC POC or your regional POC.

6.  Uniforms:  to ensure maximum participation, participants are authorized 
to wear flight suits while attending symposium professional programs.  
Evening and social events will be in appropriate civilian attire or locally 
prescribed uniform.

7.  Questions regarding the symposium specifics should be addressed to the 
Naval Helicopter Association (NHA), 654 Rogers Road, San Diego, CA 92135; 
website: www.navalhelicopterassn.org.  Commercial: (619) 435-7139.

8. Released by Rear Admiral M. C. Manazir, Director, Air Warfare.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
