UNCLASSIFIED
ROUTINE
R 062116Z JUL 16
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC
BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 156/16

SUBJ/241ST U.S. NAVY BIRTHDAY PLANNING ORDER//

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/DNS/JUL//
REF/A/MSG NAVADMIN 095-15/-/241851ZAPR2015//
REF/B/DOC/SECDEF/17NOV2015//
REF/C/DOC/OPNAV/21DEC2012//
REF/D/DOC/DOD/5500.07-R/17NOV2011//
REF/E/DOC/DON/5720.44C/21FEB2012//
REF/F/NAVADMIN/082019ZJAN16//
REF/G/10 U.S.C. 974//
REF/H/PDASD(PA)/05NOV2009//
REF/I/5 C.F.R. PART 2635//
REF/J/DON/4001.2J/12AUG2009//
REF/K/DON/4001.1F/02JUL2010//
REF/L/CNIC/1710.3/14JUN2013//
NARR/REF A IS CNO'S 241TH U.S. NAVY BIRTHDAY PLANNING ORDER.
REF B IS DOD PUBLIC AFFAIRS OUTREACH GUIDANCE FOR FISCAL YEARS 2006-2017. 
REF C IS OPNAVINST 5726.8A, OUTREACH: AMERICA'S NAVY.
REF D IS THE DOD JOINT ETHICS REGULATION. REF E IS DON PUBLIC AFFAIRS 
GUIDANCE. REF F IS THE FY2016 NAVY COMMUNITY OUTREACH PLAN.
REF G IS TITLE 10, U.S. CODE, SEC. 974, GOVERNING USE OF MILITARY MUSICAL 
UNITS. REF H IS OSD's INTERIM POLICY GUIDANCE ON SECTION 974 AND USE OF 
MILITARY MUSICAL UNITS.  REF I IS TITLE 5, CODE OF FEDERAL REGULATIONS, PART 
2635, STANDARDS OF ETHICAL CONDUCT FOR EMPLOYEES OF THE EXECUTIVE BRANCH.  
REF J IS SECNAVINST 4001.2J, ACCEPTANCE OF GIFTS. REF K IS OPNAVINST 4001.1F, 
ACCEPTANCE OF GIFTS TO THE AGENCY. REF L IS CNICINST 1710.3, OPERATION OF 
MORALE, WELFARE AND RECREATION PROGRAMS.//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN is a planning order (PLANORD) for events in support of 
the commemoration of the 241st U.S. Navy Birthday and Heritage Week (241st 
BDAY).  Coordination and Planning is directed to support working group 
planning, operation order (OPORDER) development and execution of 241st BDAY 
commemorations Navy-wide.

2.  Situation:
    a.  On 13 October 2016, the Navy will celebrate its 241st birthday.
The central theme of this year's 241st BDAY and Heritage Week will be 
"America's Sailor.  For 241 Years: Tough, Bold, and Ready."  The announcement 
of this theme now allows planners at all echelons to focus talking points, 
guest speaker, solicitations, etc. for this year's commemorations.  On 2 
October 2016, the Chief of Naval Operations (CNO) will mark the commencement 
of a week-long Navy Heritage celebration in Washington, DC culminating with a 
commemoration at the National Capital Region (NCR) Navy Birthday Ball on 7 
October 2016.
    b.  The Navy will leverage the 241st BDAY as an opportunity for enhanced 
public engagement, both at home and where our forces are stationed abroad. 
Per reference (b), the continued development of an overarching strategic 
approach will ensure alignment throughout the Navy enterprise and provide 
guidance for planning and execution.  The intent is to maximize public 
awareness by conducting local events in areas with a Navy presence.  On a 
broader scale, we will use the 241st BDAY to tell our Navy's story, 
strengthen our Navy's connection to the American public, and improve the 
American public's appreciation for our Navy's role in our Nation's history 
and culture.
    c.  The 241st BDAY commemorations will include a series of events in 
fleet concentration areas (CONUS and OCONUS) and at local commands throughout 
the Navy concluding by 13 October 2016.  241st BDAY planning should include a 
range of events coordinated to promote participation by the local populace 
and civic leadership per references (a) through (e).
    d.  Similar to the 240th BDAY effort, this PLANORD directs three phases 
of the 241st BDAY activities.  Phase I is the planning/program development of
241st BDAY (1 June 2016 - 1 September 2016).  This phase encompasses the 
detailed planning required to execute the 241st BDAY events.  Phase II is the 
execution of the 241st BDAY (2 September 2016 - 13 October 2016) plan. This 
will begin upon the release of the 241st BDAY EXORD by Commander, U.S. Fleet 
Forces Command (COMUSFLTFORCOM).   Phase III is the assessment and plan 
refinement phase of the 241st BDAY and will occur from 14 October 2016 to 31 
March 2017.
    e.  COMUSFLTFORCOM is the lead for all phases and may provide amplifying 
guidance, to include delegating authority to other echelon II and below 
commands to lead specific phases or provide support with the exception of 
efforts aligned to support NCR events.  In every case, all events will be 
synchronized with NCR events.  For optimal sequencing, all Navy Birthday 
Ceremonies (including those associated with Navy Birthday Balls) should, to 
the maximum extent possible, be planned to execute prior to or the same day 
as the NCR Navy Birthday Ball on 7 October 2016.

3.  Mission:  Navy commands will synchronize their efforts in celebrating the 
U.S. Navy's birthday each year to gain the maximum institutional benefits for 
internal and external audiences.  For the purpose of the effort, 
institutional benefit includes:
    a.  Increased awareness and support for the U.S. Navy.
    b.  Enhanced appreciation of Navy missions, history and heritage for 
Sailors and former Sailors and their families.
        (1) COMUSFLTFORCOM will develop a strategic plan and direct execution 
Navy-wide.
        (2) Per reference (c) and to the extent feasible, 241st BDAY events 
should leverage tours of Navy installations, fitness events, U.S. Navy Band 
performances, Navy Birthday Ceremonies, Navy Birthday Balls, Navy Heritage 
Celebrations, and similar events to raise awareness of our Navy Birthday, 
History and Heritage. Paragraph 0507 of reference (e) provides guidance 
concerning public engagement events appropriate for commemoration of our 
Navy's Birthday.

4.  Execution:
    a.  CNO'S intent.
        (1) Purpose.  Synchronize the Navy's efforts in celebrating its 241st 
Birthday to gain the maximum institutional benefit for internal and external 
audiences.
        (2) Method.  OPNAV and COMUSFLTFORCOM will provide the guidance and 
oversight necessary to align commands on the preparation and execution of 
241st BDAY.  As part of this effort, best practices developed for the 240th 
BDAY Celebration will be refined for use in 241st BDAY and future 
commemorations.
        (3) End State.
            (a) Enhanced Naval heritage and traditions;
            (b) Maximized opportunities for participation in Navy 
commemoration events;
            (c) Increased awareness of, and support for, the Navy by Key 
audiences;
            (d) Improved Navy-wide processes and coordination for Navy 
Birthday commemorations.
    b.  Initial Planning Guidance.
        (1) Use the 241st BDAY as an avenue to share Naval history and 
heritage.
        (2) Plan and execute 241st BDAY in a manner consistent with above 
references and other applicable laws and policy.
        (3) Identify guest speakers/guests of honor early in the planning 
process, with an eye toward maximum institutional benefit.
    c.  Official and Unofficial Navy Birthday Related Events:  This PLANORD 
contains express authorization for official Navy Birthday Commemoration 
Ceremonies to be held in connection with unofficial Navy Birthday Balls and 
similar social events (i.e. in a "two-tiered" fashion) where feasible and to 
the extent consistent with law and regulation.  A "two-tiered" approach may 
be employed to better leverage official engagement oopportunities associated 
with certain unofficial Navy Birthday-related events and allow for more 
flexibility in unit-level planning of official evolutions.
        (1) Official Navy Birthday Commemoration Ceremonies.  Official Navy 
Birthday Commemoration Ceremonies directly support the mission of the U.S. 
Navy.  They are authorized on a stand-alone basis (e.g. a ceremony onboard a 
Navy installation) as well as when held in conjunction with unofficial Navy 
Birthday Balls and similar social events.  Official Navy Birthday Ceremonies 
held in conjunction with unofficial Navy Birthday Balls and similar social 
events will normally follow a "two-tiered" sequence: Tier 1 (official Navy 
Birthday Commemoration Ceremony) followed by Tier 2 (unofficial Navy Birthday 
Ball or similar social event).  Official Navy Birthday Commemoration 
Ceremonies often include (subject to availability) a Navy color guard, a 
performance by the Navy Band (for ceremonial music only), a presentation or 
pageant commemorating the Navy's Birthday and mission, and appropriate Guest 
of Honor remarks.  Active unit level planning, management, and execution 
efforts in support of Official Navy Birthday Commemoration Ceremonies is 
authorized in a manner consistent with mission, resource and legal 
constraints.  These efforts may include provision of the following in support 
of official ceremony requirements: security, transportation of Ceremonial 
participants, ceremony photography, informational notifications via official 
military information channels, audio/visual support, and other appropriate 
logistical support required for the official ceremony.  Official Navy 
Birthday Commemoration Ceremonies are to be conducted to in a manner 
consistent with applicable mission, resource, and legal constraints.
        (2) Unofficial Navy Birthday Balls and Similar Social Functions.
Though sometimes held in conjunction with an Official Navy Birthday 
Commemoration Ceremony, Navy Birthday Balls and similar social events are 
traditionally organized by groups of Sailors acting in an unofficial capacity 
or other non-federal entities (NFE) chartered to provide support to the 
military and/or its service members.  These events normally involve an 
invited Navy speaker or guest of honor, dinner, musical entertainment, 
dancing, refreshments, and other social activities.  Navy Birthday Balls are 
normally supported through NFE organized ticket sales to attendees, though 
they may also be supported by appropriate NFE fundraising activities, and 
non-appropriated funds (NAF), if available and authorized by law and policy.
While Navy Birthday Balls involve celebrations of the Navy's birthday, 
history and heritage, they are not official Navy events.  Given that Navy
Birthday Balls and similar social events involve celebrations of the Navy's 
mission and heritage and are normally attended by a broad cross section of 
active duty and civilian Navy personnel and their families as well as members 
of local Navy host communities, they often afford important Navy engagement 
opportunities.  Therefore, the Navy may provide limited logistical support to 
unofficial Navy Birthday Balls (e.g. to include official speakers and 
notifications to military personnel through military information channels) as 
consistent with reference (d).         
(3) Resource and Funding Constraints.  It is important that participation of 
Navy personnel and use of Navy resources in support of Navy Birthday-related 
events receive appropriate prior review to determine the nature of the Navy 
Birthday related event (e.g. official or unofficial) and to further ensure 
that any use of official time and appropriated and/or non-appropriated funds 
employed in support are consistent with fiscal and standards of conduct 
requirements.  Review by servicing legal counsel of unit-level evolution 
planning and execution is advised.  Appropriated funds are generally 
unavailable for unofficial events and may not be used for feeding and 
entertainment of Navy and/or other persons absent express statutory 
authority.  Any fundraising and other similar activities must comply with 
references (d) and (i).  Gift acceptance by Navy personnel must also comply 
with references (d) and (i) or (j) and (k) as applicable.  Reference (l) 
contains policy on MWR support to Navy Birthday Celebrations, to include 
authorization of limited MWR NAF via Navy Region and Installation Commanders 
in certain cases.  See paragraph 5 below for additional funding guidance.
        (4) Maximum use of the Navy Lessons Learned Information System 
(NLLIS) to capture best practices and lessons learned for events surrounding 
the 241st BDAY is directed.
        (5) Further develop measures of effectiveness and performance (MOEs 
and MOPs) for activities associated with the 241st BDAY, building on efforts 
from the 240th BDAY.
    d.  Tasking.
        (1) COMUSFLTFORCOM assign appropriate representation to support 
phases I through III.  Provide initial, mid, and final planning reviews as 
well as a detailed after action report to DNS following 241st BDAY.
        (2) COMUSFLTFORCOM develop and release 241st Navy Birthday 
Communication Plan to ashore and afloat commands.

5.  Funding.  Per reference (b), funding of outreach events should come from 
within existing programmed and budgeted resources and must be consistent with 
applicable law and policy.  Individual commands are responsible for funding 
all costs and ensuring judiciousness in the use of appropriated funds. 
Reference (f) provides additional community outreach guidance and funding 
limitations for Fiscal Year 2016.

6.  Command relationships.
    a.  COMUSFLTFORCOM is the supported command.
    b.  CNIC, COMNAVRESFORCOM, CHINFO, AND NAVHISTHERITAGECOM are supporting 
commanders.

7.  Released by Vice Admiral R. L. Thomas, Director, Navy Staff//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
