UNCLASSIFIED
ROUTINE
R 261824Z OCT 15
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC
BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 253/15

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N132/OCT//

SUBJ/CONDITIONAL REENLISTMENT FROM FULL TIME SUPPORT TO ACTIVE COMPONENT//

REF/A/DOC/COMNAVPERSCOM/24APR13//
REF/B/DOC/CNO WASHINGTON DC/302225ZMAY2013//
REF/C/DOC/OPNAV/2MAR15//
REF/D/DOC/COMNAVPERSCOM/8JAN08//
NARR/REF A IS MILPERSMAN ARTICLE 1160-030, CERTAIN ENLISTMENTS AND 
REENLISTMENTS UNDER CONTINUOUS SERVICE CONDITIONS.  REF B IS NAVADMIN 150/13, 
CAREER NAVIGATOR PROGRAM ANNOUNCEMENT-PART II.  REF C IS OPNAVINST 1780.4, 
POST-9/11 GI BILL.  REF D IS MILPERSMAN ARTICLE 1306-106, TIME ON STATION 
(TOS) AND RETAINABILITY/OBLIGATED SERVICE (OBLISERV).//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN announces the opportunity for full time support (FTS) 
Sailors in overmanned ratings to reenlist into the same active component (AC) 
rating that are either balanced or open. Currently, several FTS ratings are 
overmanned, while the corresponding AC rating is undermanned.  This 
initiative will assist in reducing overmanning in certain FTS ratings until 
they come into balance with program authorizations, and provides those 
Sailors who reenlist into the AC an increased advancement opportunity.

2.  FTS Sailors applying for reenlistment in the AC must meet all eligibility 
requirements per reference (a).  The requirement to be within the career 
waypoint-reenlistment (C-WAY-REEN) window as outlined in reference (b) is 
waived when applying for conditional reenlistment from FTS to AC as part of 
this initiative.  Sailors should work with their command career counselors 
(CCC) and review reference (c) to ensure that reenlisting in the AC will not 
pose any adverse financial implications.  As prescribed in reference (d), 
upon completing requisite retainability based on their current assignment, 
member can submit, via their chain of command, an Enlisted Personnel Action 
Request (NAVPERS 1306/7), to Enlisted Active Programs (PERS-811) for 
authorization of a conditional reenlistment in the AC.  If approved, PERS-811 
will notify the CCC to submit the Sailor for a C-WAY-REEN quota, using a 
Special Circumstances application within the C-WAY-REEN module.  The CCC will 
add notes in the C-WAY system stating, member approved and authorized by the 
enlisted community manager (ECM) to reenlist from FTS to AC.  Once C-WAY 
authorization is granted, Sailors should contact the AC detailer to discuss 
follow on orders.  Sailors are expected to use this authorization within 90 
days of receipt of C-WAY approval.

3.  While reference (a) states that FTS Sailors may enlist in the regular 
Navy at any time, provided total active obligated service is for a minimum of 
four years, Sailors will be authorized to reenlist for a period of time equal 
to or greater than their current enlistment contract.  If operational 
requirements preclude reenlistment, commands must contact the applicable ECM 
to discuss an extension request.  Eligible Sailors who apply and are not 
approved for this initiative may apply for reenlistment to the AC at their 
soft expiration of active obligated service/projected rotation date C-WAY-
REEN application window.

4.  This NAVADMIN supersedes the current reenlistment authority contained in 
reference (a).  Revisions to reference (a) are forthcoming and will be 
published at a later date.

5.  Navy personnel can contact the Navy Personnel Command Call Center in 
Millington, Tennessee at 1 (866) U-Ask-NPC or via e-mail at 
uasknpc(at)navy.mil with questions.

6.  Released by Vice Admiral W. F. Moran, N1.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
