UNCLASSIFIED

ADMINISTRATIVE MESSAGE  

IMMEDIATE

O 192359Z AUG 16 ZYB

FM CNO WASHINGTON DC

TO NAVADMIN

BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 184/16

SUBJ/NAVY ATTENDANCE AT THE 8-11 SEPTEMBER 2016 ANNUAL TAILHOOK ASSOCIATION 
SYMPOSIUM

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON//N9/AUG//
POC/S. ROCHELEAU/CDR/UNIT:  CNAP/TEL:  (619) 545-4491/EMAIL:
SEAN.ROCHELEAU(AT)NAVY.MIL//
POC/A. THORNTON/LCDR/UNIT:  CNAP/TEL:  (619) 545-1418/EMAIL:
AHREN.THORNTON(AT)NAVY.MIL//
POC/AIRLIFT/M. HENDRICKSON/UNIT:
CNAL/MARK.R.HENDRICKSON(AT)NAVY.MIL//
POC/RENO, NV GROUND TRANSPORTATION/A. THORNTON/UNIT:
CNAP/AHREN.THORNTON(AT)NAVY.MIL//
UNCLASSIFIED//

REF/A/LTR/SECNAV/16AUG16/NOTAL//

REF/B/DOC/DOD/5500.07-R/17NOV2011//

REF/C/DOC/DOD/23SEP2015//

NARR/REF A IS SECNAV CONFERENCE APPROVAL MEMORANDUM. REF B IS DOD PUBLICATION 
5500.07-R JOINT ETHICS REGULATION REGARDING OFFICIAL PARTICIPATION IN NON-
FEDERAL ENTITIES.  REF C IS DOD MEMORANDUM IMPLEMENTATION OF CONFERENCE 
OVERSIGHT REQUIREMENTS AND DELEGATION OF CONFERENCE APPROVAL AUTHORITY.// 
GENTEXT/RMKS/1.  The Tailhook Association will hold its annual national 
symposium and reunion in Reno, NV, at the Nugget Hotel from 8-11 September 
2016.  The theme for Tailhook 2016 (Hook '16) is ?The Role of Carrier 
Aviation, Past, Present and Future."

2.  Tailhook Association membership consists of over 9,600 active duty, 
reserve and retired military members dedicated to the goal of enhancing the 
professionalism of military members working in the field of Naval Aviation.  
2016 marks the 60th anniversary of the annual symposium, which provides the 
opportunity for a wide discussion on a broad range of professional and career 
issues of interest to its extensive and diverse membership.  It is a forum in 
which attendees can address and work together to present innovative solutions 
to today's issues and tomorrow's Naval Aviation challenges.

3.  Per reference (a), a limited use of government funds to attend Tailhook 
2016 has been approved.  The following restrictions apply:
    a.  Local attendance at no cost to the Department of the Navy
(DON) is authorized with supervisors' approval.
    b.  Travel, lodging and per diem have been approved for a select number 
of participants, award recipients and/or those personnel invited to 
participate on panels in a temporary additional duty
(TAD) status on cost orders (capped at 387) as approved in reference (a).  
Commander, Naval Air Force, Pacific (COMNAVAIRPAC) is responsible for 
tracking all TAD attendees for the DON.  Attendees from commands outside 
COMNAVAIRPAC shall contact the POCs listed above prior to obligating TAD 
funds to ensure total cost to DON remains within pre-approved guidelines.  
Personnel approved still need to gain TAD authorization from the first Flag 
in their respective Chain of Command.  (Note:  Registration on the Tailhook 
website does not constitute approval to travel using funds authorized in 
reference (a); travel must be coordinated with COMNAVAIRPAC).
    c.  Rental cars are not authorized for attendees traveling by government 
air or on funded TAD orders.  The host hotel will provide an airport shuttle.  
Questions regarding Reno, NV area transportation should be forwarded to POCs.
    d.  Personnel on funded orders are required to attend all
    official agenda events.  If and only if, attendance does not interfere 
with the official agenda, attendees on funded orders may attend social events 
offered in conjunction with the symposium at their personal expense.
    e.  All Commanding Officers are authorized to grant non-funded, no cost 
TAD orders at their discretion.
    f.  COMNAVAIRPAC has been authorized two airlifts.  One airlift is 
planned to depart from NAS Oceana, VA while the other is planned to depart 
from NAS North Island, CA to Reno, NV stopping at NAS Whidbey Island enroute.  
Attendees on funded orders must travel via military airlift if available.
    g.  COMNAVAIRPAC and Commander, Naval Air Force, Atlantic
(COMNAVAIRLANT) POCs will coordinate and consolidate airlift requests for 
respective type wings.
    h.  Lodging and meals will be reimbursed to the attendees in a TAD status 
only at the authorized per diem rate.  Attendees must annotate their travel 
vouchers if meals are provided by the conference host.
    i.  Attendees and Travel Authorizing Officials must be mindful of the 
need to be good stewards of taxpayer dollars in attending the symposium and 
are directed to follow the guidance in references (b) and (c) when 
authorizing travel.  TAD orders may cover expenses incident to attendance and 
participation in the symposium, including transportation, per diem and 
lodging fees.  If applicable, attendees are required to file tax exemption 
forms to reduce lodging expenses.

4.  Tactical and training aircraft are not to be used for transportation to 
or from the symposium.

5.  Questions regarding Hook '16 travel policy should be addressed to 
COMNAVAIRPAC POC or your regional POC.

6.  Uniforms:  To ensure maximum participation, participants are authorized 
to wear flight suits while attending symposium professional programs.  
Evening and social events will be in appropriate civilian attire or locally 
prescribed uniform.  This year's turnout will necessitate that we use the 
Grand Sierra Resort, Reno (GSR) as an overflow hotel for the symposium.  
Although we have used GSR for the past few years, we do not share the same 
long- standing relationship with their management that we do with the Nugget.  
While the prescribed uniform of the day (flight suit) is authorized for wear 
at the Nugget, Hook '16 attendees wearing flight suits and staying at the 
GSR, may only transit from their rooms to/from the Nugget.  Flight suits are 
not authorized in other areas of the GSR such as restaurants or the gaming 
floor.  Furthermore, the only formal, command-sponsored suites are those 
approved for the Nugget.  A free shuttle will be provided for Hook '16 
attendees from the GSR to the Nugget.

7.  Questions regarding symposium specifics should be addressed to the 
Tailhook Association, 9696 Business Park Avenue, San Diego, CA 92131-1643; 
website:  www.tailhook.net.  Commercial:
1-800-322-4665.

8.  Released by Rear Admiral M. C. Manazir, Deputy Chief of Naval Operations, 
Warfare Systems (N9)//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
