RTTUZYUW RHOIAAA0001 1711423-UUUU--RHSSSUU
ZNR UUUUU
R 201404Z JUN 14 PSN 883249K34
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
BT
UNCLAS
NAVADMIN 140/14

MSGID/GENDAMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/JUN//

SUBJ/FY-16 ACTIVE DUTY LIMITED DUTY OFFICER AND CHIEF WARRANT
OFFICER IN-SERVICE PROCUREMENT BOARD//

REF/A/DOC/OPNAV/14DEC09//
REF/B/MSG/CNO WASHINGTON DC/171307ZSEP12//
REF/C/MSG/CNO WASHINGTON DC/221403ZMAR13//
REF/D/MSG/CNO WASHINGTON DC/071628ZOCT13//
REF/E/DOC/COMNAVPERSCOM/30MAY13//
REF/F/MSG/CNO WASHINGTON DC/131544ZDEC07//
REF/G/MSG/CNO WASHINGTON DC/091410ZFEB00//
NARR/REF A IS OPNAVINST 1420.1B, ENLISTED TO OFFICER COMMISSIONING
PROGRAMS APPLICATION ADMINISTRATIVE MANUAL.  REF B IS NAVADMIN
281/12, ADVANCED CHANGE NOTICE TO OPNAVINST 1420.1B CHAPTER SEVEN,
LIMITED DUTY OFFICER AND CHIEF WARRANT OFFICER APPLICATION
INSTRUCTION AND POLICY.  REF C IS NAVADMIN 70/13, NUCLEAR TRAINED
SAILOR APPLICATIONS TO OFFICER COMMISSIONING PROGRAMS.  REF D IS
NAVADMIN 259/13, CHANGE TO THE CYBER WARRANT OFFICER COMMISSIONING
PROGRAM.  REF E IS MILPERSMAN 1220-100, NAVY DIVER (ND) RATING.
REF F IS NAVADMIN 336/07, ADMINISTRATION OF THE NAVY-WIDE
ADVANCEMENT EXAMINATION FOR SAILORS IN IRAQ, AFGHANISTAN, AND THE
HORN OF AFRICA.  REF G IS NAVADMIN 018/00, SPECIAL DUTY ASSIGNMENT
PAY.//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN announces the solicitation of applications
from highly qualified and motivated E6 through E9 personnel for the
FY-16 limited duty officer (LDO) and chief warrant officer (CWO)
programs.  LDOs and CWOs bring a variety of experience and unique
perspectives into the wardroom from their enlisted service.  The
LDO/CWO career paths provide additional leadership opportunities and
enhance a Sailor's ability to contribute to the Navy.  These
programs deliver to the officer corps seasoned professionals with
proven leadership abilities at an economical cost.  LDOs provide
broad technical management and leadership skills, and CWOs provide
specific technical expertise and leadership skills in support of the
unrestricted line, restricted line, and staff corps communities.
LDOs and CWOs serve in a variety of leadership billets within their
technical fields, ranging from division officer to commanding officer
ashore.

2.  Updated and additional policy guidance to ref (a) is promulgated
in ref (b).  Eligibility remains at 8-14 years of service for FY-16
LDO applicants.  (Refer to paragraph 11 of this NAVADMIN for nuclear
applicant eligibility requirements.)

3.  The FY-16 Active-Duty LDO/CWO In-Service Procurement Board will
convene at a date to be determined in January 2015.  For the most
current board dates, visit Navy Personnel Command (NPC) board
webpage at http://www.public.navy.mil/bupersnpc/boards/selectionboar
dsupport/pages/default2.aspx and select "FY-16 board schedule" when
available.  Applications must be postmarked NLT 1 October 2014.
Routine addendums to applications, excluding evaluations and awards,
must be received NLT 1 December 2014.  Evaluations and awards must
be received NLT the day prior to the board convening.  Communication
to the board must originate from the individual member.  Information
received that is not under the applicant's cover letter (e.g., third
party correspondence) and endorsed by the command, or not received
by NPCs customer service center (CSC) by the established deadline
will not be presented to the board.  The time and date (central
standard time) received in the NPC CSC inbox is the time and date
used for deadline verification.  Although a late submission may be
accepted by the NPC CSC, it will not be presented to the board.  All
applications/addendums must have the member's full social security
number on each page.  Applications must be mailed to NPC CSC.
Time-sensitive submissions may be submitted electronically to
cscselboard(at)navy.mil.  Electronic submissions must be sent using
military e-mail accounts and be encrypted.  Hard copy and electronic
submissions must include command endorsement.  Board number 180 is
for CWO to lieutenant junior grade (LTJG) and board number 181 is for
enlisted to LDO/CWO.  The application mailing address is:
    a.  Navy Personnel Command Customer Service Center
        President, FY-16 LDO/CWO In-service Procurement Program
        Board #180 or #181
        5720 Integrity Drive
        Millington TN 38055
    b.  Express mail:
        Navy Personnel Command Customer Service Center
        President, FY-16 LDO/CWO In-service Procurement Program
        Board #180 or #181
        5640 Ticonderoga Loop Bldg 768 RM E302
        Millington TN 38055
    c.  E-mail:  cscselboard(at)navy.mil

4.  Interview appraisal boards shall be constructed and approved by
the commanding officer (CO)/officer in charge (OIC) and consist of
a minimum of three naval officers (LDO/CWO if available).  Every
effort shall be used to ensure at least one board member is from the
designator for which the applicant is applying (including but not
limited to teleconference, video teleconference, defense connect
online, etc.).  Minimum grade requirements for board members are
LTJG, or CWO2 with two year*s time-in-grade (TIG).  A minimum of
three (maximum of five) interview appraisals must be submitted for
each applicant.  The *Potential* block on interview appraisals must
be marked for LDO/CWO candidates.  Only the current version of the
interviewer*s appraisal sheet (NAVCRUIT 1131/5 Rev 02-2014) will be
accepted.

5.  For applicants who have or are currently serving in an
individual augmentee/global support assignments (IA/GSA), include
these tours in the assignment history section of the application.
COs/OICs recommendation must include validation of any listed IA/GSA
assignment.

6.  Applicants currently serving in an IA/GSA assignment may have
their application endorsed by their field commander.  All
applications endorsed by field commanders must have their parent
command concurrence.  A sample concurrence letter is located at
http://www.public.navy.mil/bupers-npc/boards/administrative/
ldo_cwo/Pages/default.aspx.

7.  Applicants must ensure copies of their most recent periodic
evaluations are included in the application or later addendum for
board review and continuity.  First class petty officers must submit
their 15 November 2014 evaluation via an addendum.

8.  Time-in-Service (TIS) for the FY-16 board must be computed to
1 October 2015.

9.  CWO applicants for LDO must have at least 2 years TIG and be
between 14 and 16 years total active service as of 1 October 2015
(refer to paragraph 11 of this NAVADMIN for nuclear applicant
eligibility requirements).  This enables selectees a full career
opportunity as an LDO.  LDO (LTJG) selectees will terminate their
CWO status and become a permanent LDO upon appointment.

10.  As a result of the LDO/CWO sustainability initiative,
applications will not be accepted for the following non-nuclear
active-duty designators:  615X, 621X, 647X, 655X, 7211, 7231, 7281,
7481, 7511, and 7531.

11.  The following guidance applies to nuclear-trained personnel:
    a.  For nuclear-trained LDO applicants, TIS eligibility is 8-14
years.  Nuclear-trained LDO applicants with TIS greater than 14
years but less than 16 years may submit a waiver using NAVPERS
1306/7 (Rev 01-03), Enlisted Personnel Action Request, to the
Nuclear Propulsion Program Manager (OPNAV N133) via their detailer
(PERS-403).  Waivers for TIS greater than 16 years will not be
considered.
    b.  Nuclear-trained personnel are reminded of the requirement to
obtain a conditional release from nuclear field duty in accordance
with ref (c) prior to submitting an application for any officer
commissioning program.
    c.  Applications will not be accepted for nuclear CWO
designators (740X).
    d.  Nuclear-trained CWOs (740X) applying for conversion to LDO
must have at least 2 years TIG and between 14-16 years total active
service as of 1 October 2015.  Nuclear-trained CWOs applying for
conversion to LDO with greater than 16 years but less than 18 years
total active service as of 1 October 2015 may submit a waiver using
NAVPERS 1306/7 (Rev 01-03), Enlisted Personnel Action Request, to
OPNAV N133 via their detailer (PERS-42).  Waivers for greater than
18 years total active service will not be considered.

12.  The FY-16 board will consider applicants for cyber chief
warrant officers (743X).  Personnel applying for this designator
must meet eligibility requirements listed in ref (d).

13.  Navy diver applicants applying for designator (720X) must meet
requirements outlined in ref (e) paragraph 18.b.(5)(a) through (e),
(h), and (i).

14.  Due to ongoing rating mergers or realignments, eligible Sailors
are encouraged to apply for the designator for which they have
extensive documented technical and leadership experience in their
enlisted service records, regardless of current rating.  However,
special attention should be given to the guidance in paragraph 9.c.
of ref (a).

15.  Applicants must maintain eligibility throughout the selection
and promotion process.  Applicants who are deemed ineligible after
the submission of applications must be declared ineligible by their
current COs/OICs.  A sample format is located at http://www.public.
navy.mil/bupers-npc/boards/administrative/ldo_cwo/Pages/default.aspx

16.  Each applicant and command must ensure that applications are
complete and accurate.  Incomplete applications could result in
non-selection.  Refer to ref (a) (chapters 2, 7 and appendix f) for
program overview, eligibility criteria, and application format.

17.  Beginning FY-16, applicants may submit their joint services
transcript, formerly Sailor-Marine american council on education
registry transcripts, but submission is no longer required or
encouraged.

18.  CO/OICs endorsement, located on page 10 of OPNAV 1420/1
(Rev 01-08), must contain the following statement:  "Applicant meets
all requirements outlined in OPNAVINST 1420.1B, NAVADMIN XXX/14 (use
the NAVADMIN # for this message), and the physical fitness standards
of OPNAVINST 6110.1J."

19.  For the most current application process visit the PERS-803
website at http://www.public.navy.mil/bupers-npc/boards/
administrative/ldo_cwo/pages/default.aspx.  This site contains
application help and a review checklist to print and include in the
application folder.  This site also contains guidance such as CSC
mailing info, a link to check receipt of the application/addendum,
how to monitor application status after PERS-803 review, and how to
reconcile application errors via addendum if items or corrections
are required for completeness or eligibility.

20.  For the most current information concerning open designator
codes, visit the LDO/CWO OCM website at http://www.public.navy.mil
/bupers-npc/officer/communitymanagers/ldo_cwo/pages/references.aspx
and click on the LDO/CWO designators link.

21.  First class petty officers serving in Iraq, Afghanistan, and
the Horn of Africa that are determined chief petty officer board
eligible in accordance with ref (f) or ref (g) are also eligible for
LDO if all other eligibility requirements are met.

22.  Points of contact:
    a.  For general LDO/CWO career path and policy questions contact
LT Julio Peterson at (901) 874-4714 or via e-mail at julio.peterson
(at)navy.mil or CWO5 Mitchell R. Allen at (901) 874-3044/DSN 882 or
via e-mail at mitchell.allen(at)navy.mil.
    b.  For nuclear trained Sailors application and eligibility
questions contact LCDR Charles Jones at (703) 604-5489 or via e-mail
at charles.o.jones(at)navy.mil.
    c.  For application and eligibility questions contact the NPC
board sponsor CWO3 Mitchell D. Allen at (901) 874-3170/DSN 882 or
via e-mail at mitchell.d.allen(at)navy.mil or Mr. Joseph Delfoe at
(901) 874-3849 or via e-mail at joseph.delfoe(at)navy.mil.

23.  This message is canceled for record purposes 30 Sep 16.

24.  Released by Vice Admiral W. F. Moran, N1.//


BT
#4917
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//

