UNCLASSIFIED
ROUTINE
R 211513Z FEB 17
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC
BT
UNCLAS
PASS TO OFFICE CODES:
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//

NAVADMIN 042/17

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/FEB//

SUBJ/ENLISTED ASSIGNMENTS AS RECRUIT DIVISION COMMANDERS//

REF/A/DOC/COMNAVPERSCOM/29NOV10//
AMPN/REF A IS MILPERSMAN ARTICLE 1306-954, RECRUIT DIVISION COMMANDER (RDC) 
DUTY.//

RMKS/1.  A strong and resilient Navy is built on the leadership put in place 
to develop our force.  The Navy’s accessions training at Officer Training 
Command Newport (OTCN) and Recruit Training Command (RTC) is our starting 
point for turning civilians into Sailors by instilling the Navy’s Core 
Values.  The leaders that provide this initial training are the Recruit 
Division Commanders (RDC).

2.  I ask Navy leadership to canvass their top quality enlisted personnel and 
encourage them to consider RDC as their next shore duty choice.  The job of 
an RDC is not easy shore duty.  The hours are long, the work is physically 
challenging, and strong character and personal integrity are required 
throughout the RDCs work day. However, the personal reward of training and 
preparing Sailors for the Fleet is unmatched.

3.  Reference (a) lists the criteria for RDC duty.  Serving as an RDC results 
not only in growth as a leader, increased career advancement opportunities, 
and a feeling of self-fulfillment, but it also includes the following 
benefits:

    a.  $450.00 per month Special Duty Assignment Pay
    b.  Additional annual clothing allowance of $220.00
    c.  Opportunity to earn a Master Training Specialist Qualification
    d.  In line with the American Council on education evaluation, RDCs may 
earn up to 15 college credits (both upper and lower credits) towards a 
bachelors degree, and choice of follow-on coast assignment.  The RDC duty at 
OTCN and RTC each have their own unique challenges.  However, with the 
significant numbers of RDCs needed at RTC, PERS-4 has instituted an 
additional sea duty credit incentive for RDCs reporting to RTC on/after 1 
October 2016 and who complete a 36-month RDC tour.  The sea duty credit can 
be offered by detailers to eligible Sailors as follows (incentive does not 
include Nuclear trained enlisted personnel):
        (1)  Sailors with a 36-month follow-on sea tour may have 12 months of 
sea duty waived for a total of a 24-month sea tour requirement.
        (2)  Sailors with a 42-month follow-on sea tour may have 18 months of 
sea duty waived for a total of a 24-month sea tour requirement.
        (3)  Sailors with a 48-month follow-on sea tour may have 24 months of 
sea duty waived for a total of a 24-month sea tour requirement.
        (4)  Sailors with a 54-month follow-on sea tour may have 24 months of 
sea duty waived for a total of a 30-month sea tour requirement.
        (5)  Sailors with a 60-month follow-on sea tour may have 24 months of 
sea duty waived for a total of a 36-month sea tour requirement.
        (6)  Sailors who still owe additional sea time after completion of 
Type 3 Remote Land-based Duty or 4 Overseas Sea tour may have the rest of 
their sea time waived if they accept an RTC RDC assignment (member will not 
be eligible for sea duty credit for follow-on sea tour after completing 36 
month RDC tour).

4.  Training to be an RDC begins at RDC C School.  Candidates must have 
passed the most recent physical fitness assessment, including the run.  No 
optional cardio respiratory event may be substituted. RDCs at OTCN are E-7 
and above and RDCs at RTC are E-5 and above.

5.  Interested Sailors must submit a Enlisted Personnel Action Request 
(NAVPERS 1306/7) requesting duty as an RDC to the appropriate rating 
detailer.  Reference (a) contains all screening requirements and instructions 
for waiver submissions.  All commanding officers with interested Sailors must 
ensure that packages for prospective RDC candidates are screened thoroughly.
Additional information can be found on the NPC website at 
http://www.public.navy.mil/bupers-
npc/enlisted/detailing/shorespecialprograms/pages/default2.aspx.

6.  Screening packages must be sent via e-mail to 
michael.d.campbell3(at)navy.mil, by fax to (901)874-2646/DSN 882, or by mail 
to:
    Commander, Navy Personnel Command, PERS 4010,
    5720 Integrity Drive
    Millington, TN 38055-4000.

7.  Released by Vice Admiral R. P. Burke, N1.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
