UNCLASSIFIED
ROUTINE
R 301701Z AUG 17
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC
BT
UNCLAS
PASS TO OFFICE CODES:
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//

NAVADMIN 212/17

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/AUG//

SUBJ/AY-18/19 JUNIOR PERMANENT MILITARY PROFESSOR SELECTION BOARD//

REF/A/DOC/OPNAV/16MAY13//
REF/B/DOC/OPNAV/7JAN15//
NARR/REF A IS OPNAVINST 1520.40B, PERMANENT MILITARY PROFESSOR PROGRAM.  
REF B IS OPNAVINST 1520.23C, GRADUATE EDUCATION.//

RMKS/1.  Pursuant to references (a) and (b) this NAVADMIN announces the 
Junior Permanent Military Professor (JPMP) Board for November 2017.  The JPMP 
Program seeks active duty, unrestricted line or Information Warfare Community 
officers, selected for or serving in the permanent grade of lieutenant 
commander (LCDR) (O-4), preferably with teaching experience, to join the 
faculty at the United States Naval Academy (USNA).  Selection for assignment 
to the JPMP program is made by an institutional screening board.

2.  In addition to the eligibility requirements specified in reference (a), 
the following apply:
    a.  Officers must be available to report to USNA no later than 31 July 
2018.
    b.  Pay grade requirements may not be waived.  Officers who failed to 
select to commander (O-5) two or more times are not eligible to apply.  
Officers already selected to O-5 are not eligible.  Officers selected to O-5 
during the FY-19 promotion cycle will no longer be eligible.

3.  Officers must have a relevant masters degree to serve as JPMPs. For those 
applicants who do not have a relevant masters degree at the time of 
application, the JPMP program will send a limited number to a selected 
civilian institution in the Baltimore, MD or Washington, DC area for 
approximately 12 months of graduate education.  This will be directly 
followed by a teaching assignment to USNA as JPMP until statutory retirement 
or selection to O-5.

4.  Officer community managers (OCMs) will review all applicant records to 
ensure compliance with eligibility requirements.  OCMs will also identify 
eligible officers releasable to the screening board based on year groups and 
designators, from which a limited number of applicants may be selected.
    a.  All applicants shall communicate intentions to apply to JPMP program 
to respective OCM and detailer.
    b.  The Nuclear Propulsion Program Manager (OPNAV N133) must release 
nuclear-trained submarine and surface officers prior to consideration by the 
board.
        (1) Submarine warfare officers must have completed a department head 
tour or be senior to those currently assigned as department heads.
        (2) Surface warfare officers (nuclear) must have completed a tour in 
a LCDR-grade nuclear billet onboard a nuclear-powered ship or be senior to 
those currently assigned as department heads.

5.  The AY-18/19 JPMP Selection Board may select up to six applicants at USNA 
from the following fields:
    a.  Aerospace Engineering
    b.  Electrical or Computer Engineering
    c.  Mechanical or Nuclear Engineering
    d.  Naval Architecture or Ocean Engineering
    e.  Control Systems or Robotics Engineering
    f.  Chemistry
    g.  Computer Science
    h.  Cyber Science, Cyber Operations, or Computer Networks
    i.  Mathematics, Statistics, or Operations Research
    j.  Physics
    k.  English
    l.  Foreign Language (French or German)
    m.  History

6.  Applicants must review references (a) and (b) for additional information 
on the JPMP program.  In addition to JPMP application as in line with 
reference (a) template, add official photo, Officer Summary Record, 
Performance Summary Record, and copies of last five fitness reports to the 
application package.  Also, for information regarding available disciplines 
and graduate schools, visit the USNA JPMP website located at 
http://www.usna.edu/Academics/Faculty-Information/Faculty-Officer-
Opportunities.php (case sensitive).

7.  The application deadline is 26 September 2017.  Send scanned applications 
via encrypted e-mail to PERS-440_submit.fct(at)navy.mil, or mail to the 
following address:

    Navy Personnel Command
    Attn:  PERS-443B
    5720 Integrity Drive
    Millington, TN 38055

8.  For the plan of the day/week, use the following draft note: The Navy is 
seeking warfare-qualified, post-department head Lieutenant Commanders to join 
the faculty of the United States Naval Academy (USNA) as Junior Permanent 
Military Professors (JPMP). Successful applicants will have demonstrated 
sustained superior performance in their current designators.  Though not 
required, those with successful teaching experience will be viewed favorably 
during the selection process.  Officers selected will provide full-time 
instructional support and serve as uniformed role models and mentors for USNA 
Midshipmen.  The deadline for applications is 26 September 2017.  Selected 
officers must report to USNA no later than 31 July 2018.

9.  Navy Personnel Command point of contact is LCDR Ian Lopez, PERS-443B, who 
can be reached at (901)874-4067/DSN 882 or via e-mail at 
ian.lopez(at)navy.mil.

10.  This NAVADMIN will remain in effect until superseded or canceled, 
whichever occurs first.

11.  Released by Vice Admiral R. P. Burke, N1.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
