UNCLASSIFIED//

ROUTINE

R 181546Z MAR 16

FM CNO WASHINGTON DC

TO NAVADMIN

INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC

BT
UNCLAS
PASS TO OFFICE CODES:
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//
NAVADMIN 067/16

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/MAR//

SUBJ/ACADEMIC YEAR 2016-2017 NAVAL WAR COLLEGE FLEET SEMINAR PROGRAM//

REF/A/MSG/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/160004ZAUG06//

AMPN/REF A IS NAVADMIN 233/06, JOINT PROFESSIONAL MILITARY EDUCATION FOR 
SENIOR ENLISTED LEADERS.//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN announces the 41st consecutive year of Joint 
Professional Military Education (JPME) for senior leaders.  The Naval War 
College (NWC) Fleet Seminar Program (FSP) offers joint intermediate level PME 
through a set of three courses:  Strategy and War (S&W), Theater Security 
Decision Making (TSDM), and Joint Maritime Operations (JMO), and is offered 
at multiple locations in keeping with Chief of Naval Personnels efforts to 
foster a deliberate and flexible learning environment.  Each course normally 
requires one academic year to complete.  All three courses are not offered 
simultaneously at all locations.  There is no tuition fee and course 
materials are provided on a loan basis at no cost to the students.

2.  The NWC FSP will be offered in 19 regional locations in the United States 
for academic year 2016-2017.  Planned locations and courses are:
    a.  Annapolis, MD (S&W, TSDM, and JMO)
    b.  Bangor, WA (JMO)
    c.  Dahlgren, VA (TSDM)
    d.  Everett, WA (TSDM)
    e.  Fort Worth, TX (TSDM)
    f.  Great Lakes, IL (JMO)
    g.  Jacksonville, FL (TSDM and JMO)
    h.  Mayport, FL (S&W)
    i.  Millington, TN (JMO)
    j.  New Orleans, LA (TSDM)
    k.  Newport, RI (S&W, TSDM, and JMO)
    l.  Norfolk, VA (S&W, TSDM, and JMO)
    m.  Patuxent River, MD (JMO)
    n.  Pearl Harbor, HI (S&W, TSDM, and JMO)
    o.  Pensacola, FL (Whiting Field) (S&W)
    p.  Port Hueneme, CA (S&W)
    q.  San Diego, CA (S&W, TSDM, and JMO)
    r.  Washington, DC (S&W, TSDM, and JMO)
    s.  Whidbey Island, WA (S&W)

3.  FSP courses are similar in content and delivery methodology to the 
intermediate level program of study offered by the resident College of Naval 
Command and Staff in Newport, RI.  Seminars for each course meet one evening 
per week for approximately 34 weeks, commencing in early September 2016 and 
ending in May 2017.  Led by NWC adjunct faculty members, and supported by 
visiting NWC faculty, these courses replicate both the content and atmosphere 
of the resident courses of study.  Successful completion of all three courses 
results in the award of a College of Naval Command and Staff diploma, as well 
as credit for intermediate level JPME Phase One.  The FSP seminars at the 19 
locations are conducted in-step with each other so it is possible for a 
student who is transferring to, or assigned temporary additional duty at 
another seminar location to attend class at that location.

4.  NWC accepts program applications from commissioned officers (active and 
reserve), selected command master chiefs, and civilian employees of the 
federal government, subject to the following eligibility requirements:
    a.  Members of the sea services (Navy, Marine Corps, and Coast Guard) in 
grade O-3 or above, while officers from other services must be in grade O-4 
or above.  Per reference (a), Chief of Naval Operations-designated command 
master chiefs are eligible for enrollment.  Civilian employees of the federal 
government in the grade of GS-11 and above, or equivalent are also eligible 
for enrollment.
    b.  All applicants must have previously earned at least a baccalaureate 
degree.

5.  Qualified individuals currently stationed in areas listed in paragraph 2, 
or those who expect transfer to those sites prior to 1 September 2016 are 
encouraged to apply.  More information is available, and applications must be 
made, at the NWC College of Distance Education website at 
http://www.usnwc.edu.  Once on the page, click on "Departments and Colleges,"
then click on "College of Distance Education," then "Fleet Seminar."  The 
application period will remain open until 30 June 2016.  NWC will make 
enrollment selections, and accepted applicants will be advised of their 
enrollment selection status by mid-August 2016.

6.  Request widest dissemination of the above information in activity plans 
of the day, plans of the week, base newspapers, base cable TV, and any other 
available appropriate media.  Regional coordinators at the sites listed in 
paragraph 2 are requested to pass this information to all Army, Marine Corps, 
Air Force and Coast Guard units and all reserve units located within safe- 
driving distance of their site.

7.  Points of contact are Ms. Kelly Folger, at (401) 841-6520/DSN 841, or via 
e-mail at fsp(at)usnwc.edu, Ms. Valerie Withers at
(401) 841-6519/DSN 841, or via e-mail at fsp(at)usnwc.edu and Professor 
Ronald Oard via e-mail at oardr(at)usnwc.edu.

8.  This message is canceled for record purposes on 30 June 2017.

9.  Released by Vice Admiral W. F. Moran, N1.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//

