UNCLASSIFIED
ROUTINE
R 061237Z APR 17
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC
BT
UNCLAS
PASS TO OFFICE CODES:
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//

NAVADMIN 082/17

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/APR//

SUBJ/FY-19 OLMSTED SCHOLAR PROGRAM//

REF/A/DOC/OPNAV/8JAN15//
AMPN/REF A IS OPNAVINST 1520.24D, OFFICER SCHOLARSHIP PROGRAM.//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN solicits applications and provides guidance for the 
FY-19 Olmsted Scholar Program.

2.  This NAVADMIN supersedes NAVADMIN 038/17 and is being re-issued to 
include a new three year trial program for Aviators (Designators 131x/132x) 
that is described in paragraph 6b.

3.  The Olmsted Scholar Program provides two years of graduate study using a 
foreign language while providing overseas cultural and travel opportunities 
and often leads to a graduate degree at a foreign university.  Applicants 
should be available to commence language training in Summer/Fall 2018, begin 
study at a foreign university in 2019, and complete study in 2021.  A Navy 
selection board will convene in November 2017 to select up to 12 nominees 
from which the Olmsted Foundation Board of Directors will consider and select 
Navy scholars in March 2018.

4.  This unique scholarship opportunity supports the Secretary of Defense 
emphasis on developing language skills and regional cultural knowledge across 
the force.  Global affairs require language proficiency/regional expertise 
within the Navy.  Although this scholarship program is open to all regions of 
the world, priority will be given to those whose language choice would fill a 
current or projected critical need of the Navy.

5.  To utilize these scholarship opportunities, the Navy is looking for young 
leaders who display all the qualities of dedicated career officers who aspire 
to command.  In particular, fitness reports must demonstrate strong 
leadership qualities, solid overall performance, and strong promotion 
potential.  Additionally, while a minimum grade point average is not 
specified, all applicants must have demonstrated scholastic ability in their 
undergraduate transcript. Factors such as academic major, participation in 
varsity sports, steady scholastic improvement, etc. are taken into 
consideration when reviewing transcripts.  Applicants must also have a strong 
desire to learn a foreign language, live, study, and travel abroad. Finalists 
may be interviewed by the Olmsted Foundation.

6.  Active-duty list regular or Full-Time Support officers with the 
designators 111X, 112X, 113X, 114X, 131X, 132X, 181X, 182X, 183X, and 310X 
with the following qualifications may apply for the program.
    a.  Designators 111x, 112x, 113x, 114x, 181x, 182x, 183x, and 310x must 
have at least 3 years of commissioned service but not more than 11 years of 
total active federal service as of 1 April 2018.
    b.  Designators 131x and 132x will have the opportunity to participate in 
a 3 year trial program that expands the service eligibility requirement from 
no more than 11 years to no more than 13.5 years.  Given the compressed 
career timeline for Aviators through Department Head, this trial program is 
intended to evaluate whether this change would enable greater participation 
during a timeframe that does not jeopardize career viability.  For the 
duration of the trial program, which will last through the FY-21 Olmsted 
cycle, officers with designators 131x and 132x must have at least 3 years of 
commissioned service but not more than 13.5 years of total active federal 
service as of 1 April 2018.
    c.  Superior scholastic ability as demonstrated in an official 
undergraduate transcript.
    d.  Foreign language aptitude as demonstrated on the Defense Language 
Aptitude Battery (DLAB), although language background or proficiency is not 
required.
    e.  Exceptional military professional performance.

7.  Applications should be prepared pursuant to enclosure (3) of reference 
(a).  Detailed information on application requirements is located on the My 
Education Portal at: http://www.navycollege.navy.mil/information-for-
sailors/paying-for-school/programs-for-officers.htm#olmstead.  Applications 
should be addressed to:
    Naval Education and Training Professional Development Center
    (NETPDC) Voluntary Education (VOLED)
    Attn:  Code N221B, Officer Special Education Program
    (OSEP)-Olmsted
    6490 Saufley Field Road
    Pensacola, FL 32509-5204

8.  To support submission of DLAB scores, commands may obtain DLAB testing 
information by calling (850) 452-6529/DSN 459, or via e-mail at 
languagetesting(at)navy.mil.  Information on the Graduate Record Examination 
(GRE) may be obtained at www.gre.org.

9.  This is a three year program for which career timing is an important 
consideration.  All applicants must contact their detailer for counseling on 
the career impact of participation in the Olmsted Scholar Program.  In order 
to be considered by the Navy selection board, a detailer written/signed 
statement pursuant to enclosure (3) of reference (a) must be included in the 
nomination package.

10.  Application packages, with command endorsement and detailer statement, 
must reach NETPDC VOLED, Code N221B OSEP-Olmsted no later than 25 August 
2017.  Required DLAB/GRE scores and official college transcripts may be 
submitted by separate correspondence to reach NETPDC Code N221B OSEP-Olmsted 
no later than 8 September 2017.

11.  This prestigious program is key to preparing young officers for future 
leadership roles as the Navy faces the ever-increasing challenges and 
complexities of the international environment. Olmsted Scholars achieve 
fluency in a foreign language, gain a deep appreciation for foreign cultures, 
acquire regional expertise by studying and traveling overseas, and may earn a 
Liberal Arts Masters Degree.  All eligible and interested officers are urged 
to consider this important program and visit the Olmsted Foundation website 
at www.olmstedfoundation.org for additional details.

12.  Point of contact
     a.  For program specific and application procedures contact Ms. Elise 
McGuire, NETPDC, at (850) 473-6064/DSN 753, or via e-mail at 
elise.mcguire(at)navy.mil.
     b.  For Olmsted Scholar experience inquires contact CDR David Sauve, a 
graduate of the Olmsted Scholar Program, via e-mail at 
david.sauve(at)navy.mil.

13.  This NAVADMIN will remain in effect until superseded or canceled, 
whichever occurs first.

14.  Released by Vice Admiral R. P. Burke, N1.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
