UNCLASSIFIED//

RTTUZYUW RHOIAAA0001 2571617-UUUU--RHSSSUU.
ZNR UUUUU
R 141548Z SEP 15
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC
BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 217/15

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/SEP//

SUBJ/FY-16 UNITED STATES NAVAL ACADEMY GRADUATE EDUCATION PLUS
TEACHING PROGRAM//

REF/A/DOC/OPNAV/30APR06//
AMPN/REF A IS OPNAVINST 1524.2, GRADUATE EDUCATION PLUS TEACHING
(GET) PROGRAM.//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN announces the application procedures for the
FY-16 Graduate Education Plus Teaching (GET) program.  The United
States Naval Academy (USNA) is seeking motivated unrestricted line
officers who are qualified academically and professionally to apply
for the FY-16 GET program serve as both instructors and role models
for our future naval officers.

2.  The GET program provides approximately 12 months of graduate
education at a selected civilian institution in the Baltimore, MD or
Washington, DC area directly followed by a two-academic-year
teaching assignment at USNA as an officer-instructor, resulting in a
36-month combined tour.

3.  Reference (a) provides specific information regarding available
disciplines and graduate schools as well as application guidance.
Additional information can be found on the USNA website at
http://www.usna.edu/Academics/Faculty-Information/Faculty-Officer-
Opportunities.php.  After accessing the website, proceed to the
drop-down menu titled Graduate Education and Teaching.

4.  Community-specific eligible year groups (YG) and additional
eligibility requirements follow:
    a.  Submarine:
        (1) Eligible YG:  YG12.
        (2) Commander, Navy Personnel Command (COMNAVPERSCOM)
Submarine Officer Distribution (PERS-42), will review all
applications and recommend for selection top performing officers who
can meet submarine officers advanced course (SOAC) gate at seven
years of commissioned service.  SOAC attendance and completion of a
department head tour are required following completion of USNA
assignment.
    b.  Surface:
        (1) Eligible YG:  YG12-13 surface warfare qualified officers
who have demonstrated superior performance and upward career
mobility, and are able to execute a 36-month (minimum) tour of shore
duty tour.  Officers should complete the 36-month program in time to
begin department head school by the 7.5 year point of their career.
        (2) Revised junior critical skills retention bonus contract
must be submitted immediately upon selection for the GET program.
Department head school attendance and completion of two complete
department head tours as defined by COMNAVPERSCOM, Surface Warfare
Officer Assignment (PERS-41), are required following completion of
USNA assignment.
    c.  Aviation:
        (1) Eligible YG:  YG09-12 upon completion of first sea tour.
        (2) All other applicants may be considered on a case-by-case
basis with eligibility determined by COMNAVPERSCOM, Aviation Officer
Assignment (PERS-43).

5.  Interested officers must:
    a.  Complete an application and forward to your cognizant
detailer.  A sample can be found at http://www.usna.edu/Academics/
Faculty-Information/Faculty-Officer-Opportunities.php.  The
application package must include:
        (1) Completed application page (pdf fillable version found
at the website above).
        (2) Official photo (taken within the past 12 months).
        (3) Personal statement that specifically addresses the
reason for the application to the GET program, how the program fits
into your career goals, and your expectations with respect to the
program.
        (4) Biography (follow the format provided on the website
above).
        (5) All higher education transcripts.
        (6) Chain-of-command endorsement (required).
        (7) Additional letters of recommendation (desired, not
required).
    b.  Communicate intentions to apply for this program to the
cognizant detailer to ensure adequate career timing.  All
applications will be vetted through detailers to verify career
timing impact.

6.  Timeline:
    a.  15 January 2016:  Application deadline for surface/
submarine/aviation warfare officers.
    b.  29 January 2016:  Applications forwarded to USNA for
selection/approval.
    c.  29 February 2016:  USNA final selections made and forwarded
to Commander, Navy Personnel Command.
    d.  4 March 2016:  No later than date for applicants to be
informed of selection/non-selection.
    e.  June - August 2016:  Selectees report to graduate school
based upon curriculum start dates.

7.  Points of contact are LT Galo Cavalcanti at (901) 874-3616/DSN
882 or via e-mail at galo.cavalcanti(at)navy.mil and CAPT Owen Thorp
who can be reached at (410) 293-6122 or via e-mail at
thorp(at)usna.edu.

8.  This NAVADMIN will remain in effect until canceled or
superseded, whichever occurs first.

9.  Released by Vice Admiral W. F. Moran, N1.//
BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
