UNCLASSIFIED//
ROUTINE
R 031846Z NOV 15
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC
BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 261/15

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/NOV//

SUBJ/ESTABLISHMENT OF SUBMARINE AND NUCLEAR SERVICE RATINGS//

REF/A/DOC/NAVPERS/JUL15//
AMPN/REF A IS NAVPERS 18068F, MANUAL OF NAVY ENLISTED MANPOWER AND PERSONNEL 
CLASSIFICATIONS AND OCCUPATIONAL STANDARDS (NEOCS)//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN announces the establishment of the service ratings 
listed in paragraphs 2 and 3.  These changes are primarily administrative in 
nature and are expected to minimally impact the fleet.  Per reference (a), 
establishing these service ratings is warranted because the specific 
qualifications and specialized skills unique to each service rating 
necessitate the creation of these service ratings within their general 
rating.  For each new service rating, a rating control number (RCN) is 
assigned.  Establishment of a RCN provides the added benefit of improving the 
accuracy of Manpower, Personnel, Training, and Educations data to reflect 
fleet manning.

2.  The following new service ratings will apply to active-duty nuclear-
trained Sailors and billets:
    a.  Electricians Mate, Nuclear Power (EMN), RCN 4101
    b.  Electronics Technician, Nuclear Power (ETN), RCN 1003
    c.  Machinists Mate, Nuclear Power (MMN), RCN 3703

3.  The following new service ratings will apply to active-duty, full time 
support, and selected reserve non-nuclear trained Sailors and billets:
    a.  Electronics Technician, Submarine, Navigation (ETV), RCN 1001
    b.  Electronics Technician, Submarine, Communications (ETR), RCN 1002
    c.  Machinists Mate, Non-Nuclear, Submarine Weapons (MMW), RCN 3702
    d.  Machinists Mate, Non-Nuclear, Submarine Auxiliary (MMA), RCN 3701

4.  The establishment of the service ratings and RCNs will take effect 45 
days after the release of this NAVADMIN.

5.  The service ratings will be applied to personnel serving in the following 
ratings.  These personnel will be referred to with full titles and 
abbreviations, as written below:
    a.  Electricians Mate, Nuclear Power (EMN)
        (1) New RCN: 4101
        (2) Applied to Electricians Mates with enlisted manning codes (EMCs) 
D100, D101, and D102.
        (3) EMN will be added as a source rating to the following Navy 
enlisted classification (NEC) codes:  3301, 3302, 3354, 3359, 3364, 3371, 
3372, 3376, 3377, 3384, 3389, 3394, and 9901.
    b.  Electronics Technician, Nuclear Power (ETN)
        (1) New RCN:  1003
        (2) Applied to Electronics Technicians with EMCs D110, D111, and 
D112.
        (3) ETN will be added as a source rating to the following NEC codes: 
3301, 3302, 3353, 3359, 3363, 3371, 3372, 3373, 3376, 3377, 3383, 3389, 3393, 
and 9901.
    c.  Machinists Mate, Nuclear Power (MMN)
        (1) New RCN:  3703
        (2) Applied to Machinists Mates with EMCs D130, D131, D132, D133, and 
D134.
        (3) MMN will be added as a source rating to the following NEC codes: 
3301, 3302, 3351, 3355, 3356, 3359, 3365, 3366, 3371, 3372, 3376, 3377, 3385, 
3386, 3389, 3395, 3396, and 9901.
    d.  Electronics Technician, Submarine, Navigation (ETV)
        (1) New RCN: 1001
        (2) Applied to Electronics Technicians with a C121 EMC, a designator 
code of 1, 2, or 8, and a NEC of 14GM, 14NM, 14NO, 14NP, 14NV, 14TK, 14XM, 
14XO, or 3329.
    e.  Electronics Technician, Submarine, Communications (ETR)
        (1) New RCN:  1002
        (2) Applied to Electronics Technicians with a C126 EMC, a designator 
code of 1, 2, or 8, and a NEC of 14AA, 14AB, 14BH, 14CM, 14EM, 14HH, 14TM, 
14RO, 14TO, 14ZA, 14ZQ, or 14ZR.
    f.  Machinists Mate, Non-Nuclear, Submarine Weapons (MMW)
        (1) New RCN: 3702
        (2) Applied to Machinists Mates with a C151 EMC, a designator code of 
1, 2, or 8, and a NEC of 4233, 4235, or 4247.
    g.  Machinists Mate, Non-Nuclear, Submarine Auxiliary (MMA)
        (1) New RCN:  3701
        (2) Applied to Machinists Mates with a C150 EMC, a designator code of 
1, 2, or 8, and a NEC of 4231, 4234, 4246, 4252, or 4253.

6.  There will be no change to the Navy-wide advancement examination policies 
or administration schedule for any of these service ratings.

7.  There will be no changes to the E-7 through E-9 selection board 
processes.

8.  There will be no changes to sea/shore flow.

9.  This NAVADMIN does not implement any changes for Commander, Navy 
Recruiting Command.  Current business rules will continue unchanged.

10.  The establishment of these service ratings and RCNs will neither create 
nor modify existing uniform regulations and policy.

11.  This NAVADMIN does not modify any previous guidance concerning early 
separation, fleet reserve, conversion packages, or career waypoints policy.

12.  The primary points of contact regarding these Service Rating and RCN 
establishments are as follows:
    a.  Nuclear, submarine and surface, enlisted community manager: CDR Will 
Wiley at (703) 604-5494/DSN 664, or via e-mail at william.wiley1(at)navy.mil 
or the Nuclear Community and Quality Control Manager at (703) 604-5492 or via 
e-mail at bullnuke(at)navy.mil.
    b.  Submarine, non-nuclear, enlisted community manager: LT Gregory Mosley 
at (901) 874-2081/DSN 882, or via e-mail at gregory.w.mosley(at)navy.mil
    c.  Submarine ratings technical advisor:  STSCS(SS) Joseph Hanley at 
(901) 874-4367/DSN 882, or via e-mail at joseph.m.hanley(at)navy.mil; YNC 
Aaron Norton at (901) 874-2819/DSN 882, or via e-mail at 
aaron.norton(at)navy.mil.

13.  Released by Vice Admiral W. F. Moran, N1.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
