UNCLASSIFIED//

ROUTINE

R 181417Z SEP 14 PSN 567290H29

FM CNO WASHINGTON DC

TO NAVADMIN

NAVADMIN 217/14

BT
UNCLAS

SUBJ/APPOINTMENT OPPORTUNITY FOR NUCLEAR CHIEF WARRANT OFFICER (740X
DESIGNATOR) TO NUCLEAR LIMITED DUTY OFFICER (640X DESIGNATOR)// 

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/SEP//
REF/A/MSG/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/091736ZMAY13//
REF/B/DOC/OPNAV/14DEC09//
NARR/REF A IS NAVADMIN 124/13, DISESTABLISHMENT OF NUCLEAR CHIEF WARRANT 
OFFICER (740X) DESIGNATOR.  REF B IS OPNAVINST 1420.1B, ENLISTED TO OFFICER 
COMMISSIONING PROGRAMS APPLICATION ADMINISTRATIVE MANUAL.//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN announces a one-time opportunity from 1 October 2014 
to 1 April 2015 for nuclear chief warrant officers (CWOs) to be appointed as 
nuclear limited duty officers (LDOs).

2.  Reference (a) announced disestablishment of the nuclear CWO (740X 
designator) community, and reference (b) provides guidance for a limited 
group of eligible CWOs to apply for commissioning as LDOs.

3.  This NAVADMIN enables nuclear CWO2s and CWO3s to accept a permanent 
commission as nuclear LDOs.
    a.  Nuclear CWOs with less than two years of commissioned service will be 
appointed to lieutenant junior grade on the second anniversary of his or her 
commissioning as a CWO.
    b.  Nuclear CWOs with more than two years but less than four years of 
commissioned service will be appointed to lieutenant (LT) on the fourth 
anniversary of his or her commissioning.
    c.  Nuclear CWOs with more than four years of commissioned service will 
be appointed as LTs following receipt of a request per paragraph 5.  Time in 
grade for LT will commence on the first day the officer is commissioned as a 
LT.

4.  All Nuclear CWOs appointed as LDO will be required to complete 10 years 
of total commissioned service (CWO and LDO combined) to be eligible for 
retirement.

5.  Nuclear Propulsion Programs (OPNAV N133) will forward letters offering 
commissioning as a permanent LDO to each CWO*s command (for all nuclear CWO2s 
and CWO3s).  Interested CWOs must sign the letter and return it to the 
following address:
    Chief of Navy Personnel
    ATTN:  N133E (LCDR Charles Jones)
    701 S. Courthouse Rd, BLDG 12
    Arlington, VA 22204-2472

Alternately, an encrypted e-mail with a scanned copy of the signed letter 
requesting commission may be sent to LCDR Charles Jones at 
charles.o.jones(at)navy.mil, with a copy to CWO5 Mitchell Allen at 
mitchell.allen(at)navy.mil.

6.  Upon receipt of the signed letter accepting commission as an LDO, OPNAV 
N133 (Nuclear LDO/CWO Officer Community Manager) will inform Navy Personnel 
Command (PERS-803) (Career Progression Board Support).  PERS-803 will issue 
all required commissioning documentation to the CWO*s command and set the 
commissioning date as described in paragraph 3.

7.  Contact LCDR Charles Jones, Nuclear LDO/CWO Community Manager, at 
charles.o.jones(at)navy.mil or (703) 604-5489 with any questions.

8.  This NAVADMIN is canceled for record purposes on 1 September 2017.

9.  Released by Vice Admiral W. F. Moran, N1.//

BT
#3175
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//

