UNCLASSIFIED
ROUTINE
R 171811Z APR 17
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC
BT
UNCLAS
PASS TO OFFICE CODES:
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//

NAVADMIN 070/17

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/APR//

SUBJ/REVISED SEPTEMBER 2017 (CYCLE 236) NAVY-WIDE PETTY OFFICER (E4-E6) 
ADVANCEMENT EXAMINATIONS FOR USN, FULL TIME SUPPORT, AND CANVASSER RECRUITER 
SAILORS (CORRECTED COPY)//

REF/A/DOC/BUPERS/2NOV07//
REF/B/MSG/SECNAV WASHINGTON DC/052044ZMAR13//
REF/C/MSG/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/252221ZJUN10//
REF/D/MSG/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/131544ZDEC07//
NARR/REF A IS BUPERSINST 1430.16F, ADVANCEMENT MANUAL FOR ENLISTED PERSONNEL 
OF THE U.S. NAVY AND U.S. NAVY RESERVE.  
REF B IS ALNAV 015/13, PERSONNEL SECURITY INVESTIGATION SUBMISSION 
REQUIREMENTS.
REF C IS NAVADMIN 215/10, PERFORMANCE EVALUATION AND ADVANCEMENT GUIDANCE FOR 
INDIVIDUAL AUGMENTEE SAILORS.  
REF D IS NAVADMIN 336/07, ADMINISTRATION OF THE NAVY-WIDE ADVANCEMENT EXAM 
FOR SAILORS IN IRAQ, AFGHANISTAN, AND THE HORN OF AFRICA.//

RMKS/1.  This is a corrected message that provides updated requirements in 
paragraph 2j.  This NAVADMIN announces the September 2017 (Cycle 236) Navy-
wide advancement examination (NWAE) for advancement in rate of U.S. Navy 
(USN), full time support and canvasser recruiter Sailors.
    a.  Exam dates are:
        E6 - 7 September 2017
        E5 - 14 September 2017
        E4 - 21 September 2017
    b.  In addition to the requirements of reference (a), chapter 6, 
educational services officers (ESO) must follow the pre-exam preparation 
requirements in the exam verbatim located at https://prod.neas.netc.navy.mil.

2.  Eligibility Requirements.  Advancement candidate eligibility requirements 
are found in reference (a), chapter 2, with the following information 
specific only to Cycle 236:
    a.  The terminal eligibility date used to compute time-in-rate (TIR) is 1 
January 2018.
    b.  The minimum TIR date must be on or before:
        E6 - 1 January 2015
        E5 - 1 January 2017
        E4 - 1 July 2017
    c.  TIR requirements for early promote E5 Sailors can be waived for one 
year with commanding officer (CO)/officer in charge approval.
    d.  High year tenure (HYT) date or approved HYT waiver must be effective 
1 January 2018 or later.
    e.  Candidates in a rating requiring a security clearance must have a 
favorable investigation adjudication issued by the Department of Defense 
Central Adjudication Facility or have an interim clearance granted by a CO 
before 1 September 2017.  Once Sailors have a clearance, they must maintain 
that clearance eligibility.  If for any reason a clearance is denied or 
revoked, an exam will not be authorized until a new clearance is granted.  
Sailors in the following ratings must, at minimum, maintain continuous 
security clearance eligibility for this cycle:  AC, AE, AG, AO, ATI, ATO, 
AWF, AWO, AWR, AWS, AWV, AZ, CTI, CTM, CTN, CTR, CTT, EOD, ET, FC, FT, GM, 
HT, IC, IS, IT, ITS, LN, MA, MC, MN, MT, ND, OS, QM, SB, SO, STG, STS, and 
YN, as well as all nuclear and submarine ratings. Refer to reference (b), for 
additional guidance.
    f.  Change of rate must be approved and retention approvals must be 
completed before the candidate's scheduled exam date.  This includes 
approvals from Navy Personnel Command and Career Waypoints (CWAY), etc.  
Sailors under instruction in A school for rating conversion on the scheduled 
date of the NWAE are prohibited from taking any examination.
    g.  Compute performance mark average (PMA) using all evaluations in the 
candidate's current rank with an ending date that falls within the following 
time periods:
        E4 exam - 1 January 2017 to 31 August 2017
        E5 exam - 1 June 2016 to 31 August 2017
        E6 exam - 1 September 2014 to 31 August 2017
    h.  For additional guidance on computing PMA, refer to reference (a), 
chapter 3.  For PMA guidance for individual augmentee (IA) Sailors refer to 
reference (c).
    i.  Sailors who have received a "Denied Final - Active" from CWAY as of 
the June 2017 results (results released in July 2017) are ineligible and 
shall not be administered the Cycle 236 NWAE.
    j.  Cryptologic Technician Interpretive (CTI) Sailors must achieve a 
minimum of L2/R2 on the Defense Language Proficiency Test (DLPT) in their 
primary language, as assigned by their CO, within 12 months of NWAE.  Any CTI 
whose primary language DLPT is over 12 months old must receive an advancement 
cycle participation waiver from the Navy Foreign Language Office, (OPNAV 
(N13F12)).
    k.  Sailors assigned to a submarine source rating must be fully 
qualified, as directed by MILPERSMAN 1220-040, Submarine Qualifications 
Designation for Enlisted Members.

3.  Exam Ordering
    a.  Deploying commands can order exams up to six months prior to the 
scheduled exam date.  Exams required prior to the TIR list opening are 
ordered via message or in the preferred message format via e-mail to 
sfly_N321_exam_order(at)navy.mil following the guidelines in chapter 4 and 
figure 4-1 of reference (a).  Specify in the subject line the order request 
is for early exams.  Ensure a point of contact (POC) is included in the 
message.  Refer to reference (d) for IA Sailors who are pending deployment 
to, or are deployed to and operating in a congressionally designated combat 
zone and approved contingency operations area (CDCZ/ACOA).
    b.  CTI/CTN/CTR Sensitive Compartmented Information (SCI) exam ordering 
dates can be found on the Navy Enlisted Advancement System (NEAS) Web at 
https://prod.neas.netc.navy.mil.
        (1) ESO must verify TIR eligibility lists on NEAS Web for initial 
exam ordering.
        (2) Additional exams are ordered via message or in message format via 
e-mail to sfly_cryptologic.products(at)navy.mil following the guidelines of 
reference (a), chapter 4.  Commands must include their Department of Defense 
Activity Address Code (DODAAC) account number, POC, and the number of exams 
required.  DODAAC commands requesting the forwarding of exams should include 
the forwarding command as an info addressee on the message.  The deadline for 
additional orders is 1 June 2017.  The deadline for SCI substitute exam 
orders is 23 September 2017.
    c.  Exam ordering for non-SCI exams begins 31 May 2017.  ESOs must verify 
TIR eligibility lists on NEAS Web during the following time periods:
        (1) Initial TIR lists will be available:
            E6 - 31 May 2017 to 25 June 2017
            E5 - 31 May 2017 to 9 July 2017
            E4 - 31 May 2017 to 20 July 2017
        (2) Additional TIR lists will be available:
            E6 - 26 June 2017 to 1 August 2017
            E5 - 10 July 2017 to 6 August 2017
            E4 - 21 July 2017 to 6 August 2017
        (3) Additional regular exams required after the TIR list has closed 
will be considered, otherwise, substitute exams will be sent. Exams required 
after the TIR lists have closed shall be ordered via message or in message 
format via e-mail to sfly_N321_exam_order(at)navy.mil following the 
guidelines in chapter 4 of reference (a).  Ensure a POC is included in the 
message.
    d.  Commands must select the appropriate exams (i.e., NCC/NCR, ATI/ATO, 
etc.).
    e.  Substitute exams must be kept to a minimum and require justification 
as stipulated in chapter 4 of reference (a).
        (1) Naval Education and Training Professional Development Center 
(NETPDC) is the approval authority for all substitute exams. The deadline for 
ordering non-SCI substitute examinations is 6 October 2017.
        (2) Recent graduates of the Naval nuclear propulsion program training 
pipeline on transfer leave enroute to their first at-sea assignment during 
the E4/E5 examination date will have substitute examinations ordered for them 
by their ultimate duty station if dates permit exam ordering before the 
published deadline.
    f.  ESOs must verify the examination order at the "View Previous Exam 
Orders" link via NEAS Web within 14 days of placing the order. If 
discrepancies are noted, contact the Exam Ordering and Discrepancies branch 
(NETPDC N321).
    g.  USN candidates in the following ratings are separated into the 
following competitive groups:
        (1) CS, LS, and YN
            Group 1 - Submarine
            Group 2 - All others
        (2) CTI
            Group 1 - Middle East/North Africa
            Group 2 - East/Far East
            Group 3 - Latin/South America
            Group 4 - Eastern Europe
        (3) EMN, ETN, and MMN
            Group 1 - Submarine
            Group 2 - Surface
            Group 3 - Training
        (4) FC
            Group 1 - Non-AEGIS
            Group 2 - AEGIS

4.  Exam Administration and Answer Sheet Returns
    a.  For exam administration and answer sheet return instructions, refer 
to the exam verbatim at https://prod.neas.netc.navy.mil.
    b.  ESO must check the exam tote board on NEAS Web at 
https://prod.neas.netc.navy.mil/Public/Toteboard.aspx often to ensure answer 
sheets have been received and processed.  Answer sheets that are in error 
will not be counted until they are processed successfully.
    c.  Substitute examinations must be administered within seven days of 
receipt.
    d.  A detailed discrepancy list will be maintained on NEAS Web. For 
guidance on correcting discrepancies, refer to reference (a), chapter 7.  In 
addition to processing discrepancy corrections via letter or message, NETPDC 
will also accept discrepancy corrections by encrypted e-mail.

5.  Exam Results
    a.  E4-E6 results will be provided via Bureau of Naval Personnel online 
to authorized command representatives prior to release of profile sheets.
    b.  Commands are directed to verify the examination status verification 
report for accuracy before frocking and/or advancement of E4-E6 candidates.
    c.  Individual Sailors may view/download their profile sheet at
https://prod.neas.netc.navy.mil/NEASRpts/Individual.aspx

6.  Any additional information regarding this cycle will be posted on NEAS 
web.

7.  Points of contact:
    a.  Navy Personnel Command (PERS-812) at 901-874-4500/3224/ DSN 882 or 
via e-mail at advancements-active(at)navy.mil or advancements-
reserve(at)navy.mil.
    b.  SCI exam questions and orders:  (850) 473-5874/5867/DSN 753 or via 
e-mail at sfly_cryptologic.products(at)navy.mil.
    c.  Exam orders, records, and discrepancies:  (850) 473-6148/DSN 753 or 
via e-mail at sfly_N321_exam_order(at)navy.mil or 
sfly_N321_discrepanc(at)navy.mil.

8.  For further information (reference (a), exam verbatim, and other related 
documents) visit NEAS Web at https://prod.neas.netc.navy.mil.

9.  This NAVADMIN will remain in effect until superseded or canceled, 
whichever occurs first.

10.  Released by Vice Admiral R. P. Burke, N1.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
