RTTUZYUW RUEWMCS0000 1991228-UUUU--RUCRNAD.
ZNR UUUUU

R 181228Z JUL 13

FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N00//
TO NAVADMIN
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N00//
BT
UNCLAS//N05000//

NAVADMIN 181/13

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N00/JUL//

SUBJ/IMPLEMENTATION OF NAVY SEXUAL ASSAULT PREVENTION AND RESPONSE PROGRAM 
INITIATIVES//

REF/A/DOC/DODINST 6495.02/28MAR13//
REF/B/DOC/OPNAVINST 1752.1B/29DEC06//
REF/C/DOC/OPNAVINST 5354.1F CH-1/20SEP11//
REF/D/DOC/OPNAVINST F3100.6J/4OCT11//
NARR/ REF A IS DODINST 6495.02, SEXUAL ASSAULT PREVENTION AND RESPONSE 
PROGRAM
PROCEDURES.  REF B IS OPNAVINST 1752.1B, SEXUAL ASSAULT VICTIM INTERVENTION 
PROGRAM.
REF C IS OPNAVINST 5354.1F CH-1, NAVY EQUAL OPPORTUNITY POLICY.  REF D IS 
OPNAVINST F3100.6J, SPECIAL INCIDENT REPORTING PROCEDURES.//
POC/PAUL ROSEN/CAPT/OPNAV N17/TEL: (703)604-5041/TEL: DSN 664-5041/E-MAIL: 
PAUL.S.ROSEN(AT)NAVY.MIL//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN directs organizational changes and Fleet-wide 
implementation of the initiatives successfully piloted in the San Diego Fleet 
Concentration Area and Fleet Training Center, Great Lakes in support of the 
Department of the Navy Sexual Assault Prevention and Response (SAPR) Program.  
These changes and initiatives will build upon the existing guidance and 
direction in references (b) through (d).  Accountable personnel will make 
changes to applicable programs and instructions to institutionalize these 
endeavors.   

2.  The following organizational changes are effective immediately:
    a.  Director, Twenty-First Century Sailor Office (OPNAV N17) is 
designated as the Chief of Naval Operations SAPR Officer and will direct the 
implementation of Navy-wide SAPR efforts on behalf of the CNO and VCNO.  
    b.  Chief of Naval Personnel will provide a dedicated SAPR Officer in the 
grade of O-4 or above to the following commands:  U.S. Fleet Forces, U.S. 
Pacific Fleet, U.S. Naval Forces Europe, U.S. Naval Forces Central Command, 
Naval Surface Forces, Naval Submarine Forces, Naval Air Forces, Bureau of 
Medicine and Surgery, Navy Expeditionary Combat Command, the Systems Commands 
(NAVSEA, NAVAIR, SPAWAR, NAVFAC), and U.S. Fleet Cyber Command.  These 
designated SAPR Officers will report directly to their respective Commander.
    c.  Commander, Navy Installations Command (CNIC), in conjunction with 
appropriate Navy Component Commands (BSO), will begin the process of hiring, 
training, and assigning Deployed Resiliency Counselors (DRC) to CVN and 
LHD/LHA commands.  The DRC is a dedicated civilian professional with Sexual 
Assault Response Coordinator (SARC) training, certification, and credentials 
who is able to take restricted and unrestricted reports of sexual assault and 
connect victims with the spectrum of care and available assistance.  DRCs 
will deploy with Carrier Strike Groups, Expeditionary Strike Groups, and 
Amphibious Ready Groups to provide professional support continuity to 
deployed Sailors to ensure victims remain connected to resources throughout 
their deployment.  These individuals should be in place by the end of FY14.   

3.  Fleet Commanders (USFF, CPF, CNE, CUSNC) will be the Supported 
Commanders, and Regional/Installation Commanders will be the Supporting 
Commanders, for the implementation of the following actions no later than 
(NLT) 1 October 2013.  
    a.  Institute roving barracks patrols with the intent of increasing the 
visible presence of leadership to deter behavior that may lead to sexual 
assault or other misconduct.  All Fleet unit commands (afloat and shore) with 
Sailors living in barracks will participate in these patrols.  For 
standardization, patrols will be conducted in accordance with region/base 
guidance and training.  Roving patrols will be led by Chief Petty Officers 
and/or experienced Officers (O-3) and augmented with First Class Petty 
Officers.  The timing, composition, frequency, and duration of these tours 
will be tailored at each location based on guidance from the Fleet Commander.
    b.  Ensure all Sailors residing in barracks attend indoctrination 
training within 30 days of occupancy.
    c.  Ensure personnel screened and assigned as barracks Resident Advisors 
(RA) are mature, effective leaders.  Personnel selected as an RA must be 
First Class Petty Officers or above and are required to attend RA training.  
CNIC will verify standardized RA training, to include their role in 
preventing sexual assaults, is in place NLT 31 July 2013.
    d.  Conduct surveys of facilities to identify areas that require better 
lighting, visibility, or other safety improvements to reduce the 
vulnerability of Sailors while walking on base.
    e.  Designate a Flag Officer, reporting to you, as the SAPR program 
leader for each Navy installation/Fleet Concentration Area and associated 
local commands.  This designated Flag Officer will establish routine 
coordination meetings with appropriate installation/local command 
representatives, and local community and civic leaders to review SAPR program 
efforts.  This designated Flag Officer will also ensure that
community outreach and engagement--including base and region commander 
cooperation, coordination and consultation with local law enforcement, 
hospitals and hotels--is part of each area's prevention and response 
measures.  Operational Flag Officers assigned to command positions, but not 
designated as lead for an oversight group, will participate to the maximum 
extent practicable.  Local Naval Criminal Investigative Service (NCIS) 
representatives, Region Legal Service Offices, and installation SARCs
will be included in these coordination meetings whenever possible. 
    f.  Ensure monthly Sexual Assault Case Management Group meetings, chaired 
by the installation Commanding Officer (CO) or Executive Officer (XO), are 
conducted as required by references (a) and (b).  XOs must attend these 
meetings when their command has an active case and the unit is at home 
station.  During periods when the unit is underway or deployed, the Immediate 
Superior in Command (ISIC) or another appropriate representative will attend.
    g.  Ensure installation and regional SARCs and Victim Advocates continue 
to have appropriate access to command spaces to perform their duties.
    h.  Provide quarterly consolidated reports to OPNAV N17 (reporting 
requirements to be published SEPCOR).  

4.  All commands are directed to take the following actions:
    a.  Review their compliance with reference (c) and ensure command climate 
surveys are conducted within 90 days of the CO assuming command, and annually 
thereafter.
    b.  If not already completed, conduct a face-to-face debrief of their 
most recent command climate assessment with their ISIC using the Defense 
Equal Opportunity Management Institute Organizational Climate Survey, to 
include a plan of action and milestones for corrective actions.  ISICs will 
certify completion via their administrative chain of command. 
    c.  NLT 31 July 2013, ISICs will have full visibility of their units' 
command climate survey data and any future command climate surveys.  This 
requirement for ISIC review and full visibility of command climate results 
complies with recent Department of Defense (DoD) guidance and applies to all 
commands.
    d.  Commanding Officers are to use the Sexual Assault Prevention and 
Response Commander's Guide in shaping their command program.  Guides are 
distributed at Major Command, PCO, and PXO courses at Command Leadership 
School.  An electronic copy of the guide may be viewed on the Navy Personnel 
Command's Sexual Assault page at the following link 
http://www.public.navy.mil/bupers-npc/support/readiness/Pages/SexualAssault.as
px. Commands may request additional copies via email from the Department of 
Navy Sexual Assault Prevention and Response Office (DoN SAPRO).  DoN SAPRO 
POC is Lori Zinck, lori.zinck(AT)navy.mil, COMM (703)695-4211.
    e.  In accordance with reference (a), COs, XOs, and Command Master Chiefs 
will complete the SARC Commander's Toolkit brief with the regional or 
installation SARC and report completion to their ISIC.
    f.  Review command policies to ensure adherence to reference (d) 
requirements regarding the submission of OPREPs/Unit SITREPs and Sexual 
Assault Incident Data Collection Reports (NAVPERS Form 1752/1).

5.  For your awareness, the Acting Director, NCIS will be submitting a plan 
to the Department of the Navy Assistant for Administration to hire and fund 
sufficient NCIS Special Agents and Investigators to surge the initial 
response and further enhance the timeliness of sexual assault investigations.

6.  The above actions have proven effective at Training Support Center, Great 
Lakes and in the San Diego Fleet Concentration Area in improving the safety 
of our Sailors and reducing incidents of sexual assault.  Our leadership is 
demonstrated in our commitment to the safety and security of our Sailors.  
While these actions are primarily focused on prevention, they also serve as a 
deterrent and reinforce our Commander's responsibility for victim support.  
Victims of sexual assault must be assured that they will be supported, they 
will be provided options in accordance with DoD guidance, their allegations 
will be investigated, and that offenders will be held appropriately 
accountable.  I appreciate your leadership and support of this important 
effort across the Fleet.    

7.  Released by the Chief of Naval Operations.//
BT
#0000
NNNN

