RTTUZYUW RUEWMCS0000 2182058-UUUU--RUCRNAD.
ZNR UUUUU
R 062058Z AUG 13
PASS TO ALL OFFICE CODES:
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//
TO NAVADMIN
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//
BT
UNCLAS//N01000//

NAVADMIN 198/13

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/AUG//

SUBJ/UPDATE ON CONTINUUM OF SERVICE INITIATIVES//

REF/A/MSG/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/262230ZMAR10//
REF/B/MSG/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/052008ZJUN12//
REF/C/MSG/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/051530ZNOV12//
REF/D/DOC/COMNAVPERS/27NOV12//
REF/E/DOC/COMNAVPERS/21MAY09//
REF/F/DOC/COMNAVPERS/10JUN12//
REF/G/MSG/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/091715ZSEP12//
REF/H/DOC/COMNAVPERS/16JUL12//
REF/I/MSG/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/302225ZMAY13//
REF/J/DOC/COMNAVPERS/12FEB08//
REF/K/DOC/COMNAVPERS/30JUN12//
REF/L/DOC/COMNAVPERS/13SEP06//
REF/M/DOC/BUPERS/03MAY13//
REF/N/DOC/COMNAVPERS/22AUG02//
REF/O/DOC/COMNAVPERS/22AUG02//
REF/P/DOC/OPNAV/14FEB13//
REF/Q/MSG/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/310156ZMAR09//
REF/R/MSG/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/211710ZOCT09//
REF/S/MSG/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/161722ZMAR12//
REF/T/MSG/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/302127ZMAY13//
NARR/REF A IS NAVADMIN 114/10, CONTINUUM OF SERVICE INITIATIVES.  
REF B IS NAVADMIN 179/12, SAILORS APPROVED FOR TRANSITION TO THE 
SELECTED RESERVES VIA PERFORM TO SERVE OR EARLY CAREER TRANSITION 
PROGRAM SEPARATION ORDERS.  REF C IS NAVADMIN 329/12, ACTIVE 
COMPONENT AND FULL TIME SUPPORT TO SELECTED RESERVE DELAYED 
AFFILIATION PROGRAM.  REF D IS MILPERSMAN ARTICLE 1133-062, ACTIVE 
COMPONENT AND FULL TIME SUPPORT TO SELECTED RESERVE DELAYED 
AFFILIATION PROGRAM (DAP).  REF E IS MILPERSMAN ARTICLE 1320-150,
ACTIVE DUTY NAVY DEFINITE AND INDEFINITE RECALL PROGRAM FOR RESERVE
OFFICERS.  REF F IS MILPERSMAN ARTICLE 1320-155, ACTIVE DUTY (ACDU) 
NAVY DEFINITE RECALL PROGRAM FOR RESERVE ENLISTED.  REF G IS NAVADMIN 
274/12, ANNOUNCEMENT OF THE NAVY ENLISTED RESERVE COMPONENT TO ACTIVE
COMPONENT AUGMENTATION PROGRAM.  REF H IS MILPERSMAN ARTICLE 1326-021,
NAVY ENLISTED RESERVE COMPONENT (RC) TO ACTIVE COMPONENT (AC) 
AUGMENTATION PROGRAM.  REF I IS NAVADMIN 150/13, CAREER NAVIGATOR 
PROGRAM ANNOUNCEMENT-PART II.  REF J IS MILPERSMAN ARTICLE 1001-020, 
FULL TIME SUPPORT (FTS) OF THE NAVY RESERVE OFFICER PROGRAM.  REF K 
IS MILPERSMAN ARTICLE 1306-1502, ELIGIBILITY REQUIREMENTS AND 
APPLICATION PROCEDURES FOR CONVERSION AND RECALL TO THE FULL TIME 
SUPPORT (FTS) PROGRAM.  REF L IS MILPERSMAN ARTICLE 1440-010, CHANGE
IN RATING, AUTHORIZATION.  REF M IS BUPERSINST 1001.39F, 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURES FOR NAVY RESERVISTS.  REF N IS MILPERSMAN
1212-010, LATERAL TRANSFER AND CHANGE OF DESIGNATOR CODES OF REGULAR
AND RESERVE OFFICER.  REF O IS MILPERSMAN ARTICLE 1212-020, 
REDESIGNATION PROCEDURES FOR LIMITED DUTY OFFICERS (LDO) AND CHIEF 
WARRANT OFFICERS (CWOS) WITHIN THEIR RESPECTIVE COMMUNITY.  REF P IS
OPNAVINST 1330.2B, NAVY CAREER INTERMISSION PILOT PROGRAM GUIDELINES.
REF Q IS NAVADMIN 095/09, CAREER INTERMISSION PILOT PROGRAM.  REF R 
IS NAVADMIN 301/09, CAREER INTERMISSION PILOT PROGRAM UPDATE.  REF S
IS NAVADMIN 089/12, CAREER INTERMISSION PILOT PROGRAM EXTENSION.  REF
T IS NAVADMIN 149/13, CAREER NAVIGATOR PROGRAM ANNOUNCEMENT-PART I.//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN announces the update on Continuum of Service 
Initiatives.  Ref (a) detailed improvements to the processes for 
transitioning between the active component (AC) and reserve component
(RC) in order to develop a "Continuum of Service" within the Navy 
Total Force.  In light of the Navy's dynamic manpower and personnel
demands, it is imperative that both officer and enlisted Sailors 
understand the variety of flexible service options available.  This
NAVADMIN provides a review of various Continuum of Service programs 
including AC to RC transitions, RC to AC transitions, other flexible
service options, and upcoming enhancements to the enlisted Career 
Navigator Program.

2.  Today, no Sailor needs to make an "all or nothing" career 
decision.  The Continuum of Service provides opportunities for a 
lifetime of service by combining full time active duty (365 days per
year) with part time reserve duty (one weekend per month and two 
weeks per year) and a range of programs designed to facilitate 
flexible service options.

3.  AC to RC lane change.  The Career Transition Office (CTO) 
(PERS-97) provides counseling and support to active duty officer and
enlisted Sailors considering a transition to RC.  Furthermore, all AC
officers approved for favorable separation will be contacted by the
CTO prior to separation.  Interested AC Service members may also 
contact a CTO representative by phone at 901-874-4192 or via email at
cto.officer(at)navy.mil and cto.enlisted(at)navy.mil.  Two AC to RC
processes currently assist enlisted Sailors navigating a transition 
from AC to RC:  1) Career Waypoint-Reenlistment transition to 
Selected Reserve (SELRES) with Intermediate Stop (I-Stop) orders, and
2) SELRES Delayed Affiliation Program (SELRES DAP).
    a.  Career Waypoint-Reenlistment transition to SELRES with I-Stop
orders.  Allows active-duty enlisted Sailors to request and receive 
approval for SELRES quotas through the Career Waypoint-Reenlistment 
process, either in their current rate or in another rate in which 
they are qualified for direct conversion.  Once approved for SELRES
affiliation, and while still on active duty, Sailors select the Navy
Operational Support Center (NOSC) they desire to be assigned as a 
SELRES through the Career Management System Interactive Detailing 
(CMS/ID).  To facilitate the AC to RC transition, Sailors who complete
and submit their completed reserve affiliation screening checklist 
(NAVPERS 1307/97) to the CTO more than 60 days prior to their EAOS 
will have their final PCS orders written to the selected NOSC.  The
AC separation and RC gain transactions will occur at the NOSC 
following the final PCS move.  Since beginning issuance of I-Stop 
orders in July 2012, 46 Sailors have transitioned from AC to RC under
the program.  Ref (b) provides details on AC to RC I-Stop orders.
    b.  SELRES DAP.  This program enables separating AC Sailors to 
request a delay in SELRES affiliation if current year SELRES quotas
are unavailable or if the Sailor is unable to affiliate immediately
due to transitional civilian obligations during their transition.  In
return for a future SELRES quota reservation, SELRES DAP Sailors will
be required to meet a minimum participation level in the Individual 
Ready Reserve (IRR).  IRR participation while awaiting SELRES 
affiliation includes monthly drill for retirement points only in the
Voluntary Training Unit (VTU).  Refs (c) and (d) provide details on
SELRES delayed affiliation.

4.  SELRES RC to AC/Full Time Support (FTS) lane changes.  In order
to provide opportunities for RC officer and enlisted Sailors to meet
active duty (AC and FTS) mission requirements, three reserve to 
active duty transition programs are available:  1) Definite recall, 
2) Indefinite recall (officer)/Augmentation (enlisted), and 3) SELRES
to FTS.
    a.  Definite (temporary) recall to active duty.  This program 
gives RC officer and enlisted Sailors the opportunity to perform 
active duty recall orders to fill specific AC or FTS billets for a
period of 1-3 years.  Personnel remain in the RC and compete for 
promotion with other RC members while on definite recall orders and
then return to their previous status at the completion of orders.  
Ref (e) provides details on the officer definite recall program.  Ref
(f) provides details on the enlisted definite recall program.
    b.  Indefinite recall (officer)/Augmentation (enlisted).  This 
program gives RC officers and enlisted Sailors the opportunity to 
fill AC community shortfalls.  Officer designators are changed to AC
(xxx0), and enlisted Sailors sign a new AC enlistment contract.  
These programs leverage existing skill sets to improve AC community
health, and provide Sailors an opportunity to resume or begin a 
career in the AC.  Personnel compete for promotion or advancement as
AC members and are subject to the same AC force management policies
as their counterparts.  Enlisted personnel have their service date 
adjusted based on total active service in order to compete in the 
proper year group.  Ref (e) provides details on the officer 
indefinite recall program.  Refs (g) and (h) provide details on the
enlisted AC Augmentation Program.  Enlisted AC augmentation 
applications are made through Career Waypoint-Transition using the RC
to AC/FTS Augmentation Program as described in ref (i). 
    c.  SELRES to FTS.  SELRES officers apply for transfer and 
redesignation to the FTS communities via a semi-annual board.  
Selected applicants will remain in the RC, but will have their 
designators changed from xxx5 to xxx7.  Ref (j) provides details on
officer FTS transfers.  Enlisted SELRES Sailors apply for active duty
opportunities within the FTS communities through Career Waypoint-
Transition using the RC to AC/FTS Augmentation Program as described 
in ref (i).  Ref (k) provides details on enlisted FTS transfers.  

5.  Other flexible service options.  Many service options do not 
involve changing lanes between AC and RC.  These programs meet the
adaptable requirements of both the Navy and Sailors:  1) Change of 
rate or designator, and 2) Career Intermission Pilot Program (CIPP).
    a.  Change of rate or designator.  To meet changing Navy 
personnel requirements and improve advancement opportunities, it is
occasionally desirable to have Sailors (officer, enlisted; AC, RC) 
change rates or designators.
        (1) Voluntary change of rate for SELRES enlisted.  
Applications for SELRES Sailors requesting a change in rating will be
entered in Career Waypoint-Conversion as outlined in ref (i).  The 
rating conversion process will be in accordance with ref (l) with 
some modifications as listed in ref (i). 
        (2) Voluntary change of rate AC enlisted.  Typically active
duty conversion requests will be in conjunction with reenlistment 
applications submitted via Career Waypoint-Reenlistment process.  
The details for submission and timelines are provided in ref (i).
        (3) Voluntary change of designator for SELRES officers.  
Requests for designator change are adjudicated continuously by PERS-9.
Procedures for requesting a change of designator are provided in 
chapter 9 of ref (m) and refs (n) and (o).
        (4) Voluntary change of designator for AC officers.  Requests
for designator change are adjudicated by a lateral transfer board 
twice a year.  Procedures for requesting a change of designator are
provided in refs (n) and (o) and dates of transfer boards are 
announced via NAVADMIN.
    b.  Career intermission pilot program (CIPP).  Implemented in 
2009 to provide a one-time temporary transition from active duty to
the IRR.  This enables service members to pursue personal or 
professional growth outside the service while providing a mechanism
for seamless return to active duty after up to three years.  The long
term intent of this program is to retain the valuable experience and 
training service members possess that might otherwise be lost by 
permanent separation.  The initial positive response has resulted in
congress extending the program through 2015.  To date 25 officers and
22 enlisted Sailors have been accepted into the program, and 15 have
completed their career intermission and returned to active duty. 
Details on CIPP are available in refs (p) through (s).

6.  Career Navigator Program and related SELRES enhancements.  Ref (t)
announced the Career Navigator Program as part of a fundamental shift
and an important change to how we do business in enlisted career 
management-putting Sailors at the helm to navigate their careers.  
Ref (i) provides greater detail on the major changes, upgrades, 
initiatives and execution of the Career Navigator program and outlines
two new enhancements for the SELRES community:  Career Waypoint-
Transition (formerly RC to AC augmentation) and Career Waypoint-
Conversion (formerly RC to RC).  Both NAVADMINs should be read in 
their entirety, considered a one source document and kept readily 
available for use by All Hands. 
    a  Career Waypoint-Transition.  Automates the current application
process.  SELRES Sailors will continue to work with their Command 
Career Counselor to view and apply for RC to AC/FTS Augmentation 
opportunities for which they are qualified as outlined in paragraphs
4.B. and 4.C. above.  Augmentation opportunities can still be 
accessed through the government delivery (GOV-delivery) system.  
Complete details are outlined in ref (i).
    b.  Career Waypoint-Conversion.  Building on previous capacity 
that allowed SELRES Sailors use of Career Waypoints (formerly Fleet 
RIDE) to review qualified jobs, RC Sailors, working with their 
Command Career Counselors can now view and apply for rating 
conversion for which they qualify for.  Complete details are outlined 
in ref (i).

7.  Each of the efforts listed above is designed to further enable 
the continuum of service by smoothing the transition between 
components and within the RC.  They are in place to help Sailors make
choices about their careers while ensuring the Navy receives the 
greatest support of continued service.  Ongoing efforts will enhance
the warfighting readiness of the total force, reduce barriers to 
service, and enable Sailors to better navigate their career from 
recruitment to retirement. 

8.  Questions concerning any of the options available to Sailors 
should be referred to the NPC customer service center, 1-866-U-ASK-
NPC or 1-866-827-5672, or via email at cscemail(at)navy.mil.  The
NPC customer service center is manned Monday through Friday, 0700 to
1900, Central Standard Time.

9.  Released by Vice Admiral W. F. Moran, N1.//
BT
#0000
NNNN

