UNCLASSIFIED//

ROUTINE

R 271833Z JUN 19

FM CNO WASHINGTON DC

TO NAVADMIN

INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC

BT
UNCLAS
NAVADMIN 142/19
PASS TO OFFICE CODES:
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/JUN//

SUBJ/FY-21 ACTIVE-DUTY LIMITED DUTY OFFICER AND CHIEF WARRANT OFFICER IN-
SERVICE PROCUREMENT BOARD//

REF/A/DOC/OPNAV/14DEC09//

REF/B/MSG/CNO WASHINGTON DC/251736ZJAN18//

REF/C/DOC/COMNAVPERSCOM/2AUG18//

REF/D/MSG/CNO WASHINGTON DC/041710ZJUN18//

REF/E/MSG/CNO WASHINGTON DC/101548ZJUN19//

REF/F/DOC/OPNAV/17JAN19//

REF/G/MSG/CNO WASHINGTON DC/051434ZJUN19//

REF/H/MSG/CNO WASHINGTON DC/131544ZDEC07//

NARR/REF A IS OPNAVINST 1420.1B, ENLISTED TO OFFICER COMMISSIONING PROGRAMS 
APPLICATION ADMINISTRATIVE MANUAL.  REF B IS NAVADMIN 014/18, UPDATED OFF-
RAMP GUIDANCE FOR ACTIVE AND RESERVE COMPONENT INFORMATION WARFARE AND SUPPLY 
CORPS LIMITED DUTY OFFICERS.  REF C IS MILPERSMAN 1220-100, NAVY DIVER (ND) 
RATING.  REF D IS NAVADMIN 140/18, MODIFICATION OF THE NAVY CYBER WARRANT 
OFFICER PROGRAM.  REF E IS NAVADMIN 128/19, OFF-RAMP GUIDANCE FOR ACTIVE 
COMPONENT SUBMARINE COMMUNICATIONS DESIGNATOR 6290 LIMITED DUTY OFFICERS.
REF F IS OPNAVINST 1210.5B, LATERAL TRANSFER AND REDESIGNATION OF ACTIVE 
COMPONENT OFFICERS IN THE NAVY.  REF G IS NAVADMIN 126/19, DISESTABLISHMENT 
OF ACTIVE COMPONENT AVIATION OPERATIONS DESIGNATOR
6320 LIMITED DUTY OFFICERS.  REF H IS NAVADMIN 336/07, ADMINISTRATION OF THE 
NAVY-WIDE ADVANCEMENT EXAM FOR SAILORS IN IRAQ, AFGHANISTAN, AND THE HORN OF 
AFRICA.//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN announces the solicitation of applications from highly 
qualified and motivated E-6 through E-9 Active-Duty and Full-Time Support 
personnel for the Fiscal Year (FY) 2021 Limited Duty Officer (LDO) and Chief 
Warrant Officer (CWO) programs.  Where conflicts with reference (a) exist, 
this NAVADMIN takes precedence.

2.  For the most current information concerning open designator codes, visit 
MyNavy Portal (MNP) at
https://www.mnp.navy.mil/group/career-planning/commissioning-
programs, click the *Active-Duty LDO/CWO In-Service Procurement Board (ISPB)* 
link, then select the current LDO and CWO designators link.

3.  LDOs and CWOs bring a variety of experience and unique perspectives into 
the wardroom from their enlisted service.  The LDO and CWO career paths 
provide additional leadership opportunities and enhance the ability of a 
Sailor to contribute to the Navy.  These programs deliver to the officer 
corps seasoned professionals with proven leadership abilities at an 
economical cost.  LDOs provide broad technical management and leadership 
skills and CWOs provide specific technical expertise and leadership skills in 
support of the unrestricted line, restricted line and staff corps 
communities.
LDOs serve in a variety of leadership billets within their technical fields, 
ranging from division officer to commanding officer (CO) ashore.  CWOs serve 
in a variety of repetitive billets within their technical specialties, 
ranging from division officer to officer-in- charge (OIC) ashore.

4.  All applicants to the LDO and CWO programs must be able to complete sea 
duty screening and be worldwide assignable.

5.  Updated policy guidance to reference (a):
    a.  All time-in-service (TIS) and time-in-grade (TIG) requirements for 
the FY-21 Active-Duty LDO and CWO ISPB shall be computed to 1 October 2020.
    b.  To support career progression models and maximize the return on 
investment for the Navy, TIS waivers for LDO and CWO applications will not be 
considered.
        (1) LDO obligatory service is 4 years from commissioning.
LDOs must serve 10 years of commissioned service to retire as an officer.
        (2) CWO obligatory service is 6 years from commissioning.
    c.  TIS and TIG requirements are:
        (1) LDO:  8-14 years TIS and 1 year TIG for E-6 and above.
Applicants for off-ramp designators (629X, 651X, 681X and 682X) may apply 
with up to 15 years of service.
        (2) Nuclear Power LDO (620X):  Applicants may apply with up to 16 
years of service.
        (3) CWO2:  14 to 20 years TIS for E-6 selected for E-7, E-7 and E-8 
(includes frocked E-9s).
        (4) CWO3:  14 to 22 years TIS and 1 day TIG as an E-9 as of board 
convening date.
    d.  The FY-21 Active-Duty LDO and CWO ISPB will consider Navy Divers (ND) 
for Submarine Engineer LDO (623X).
    e.  ND applicants applying for Navy Diver CWO (720X) shall possess the 
Master Diver Navy enlisted classification (NEC MMDV) or be a chief or senior 
chief petty officer first class diver (NEC
M1DV) who meets all eligibility requirements to attend the master diver 
evaluation course in reference (c), subparagraph 18b(5)(a) through 18b(5)(i), 
with the following exceptions:
        (1) Subparagraph 18b(5)(c):  Served at least 12 months at fourth 
diving command.
        (2) Subparagraph 18b(5)(h):  Successfully passed the written master 
diver course pretest within the last 24 months.
    f.  Cyber Warrant Officer CWO1 (784X) applicants refer to eligibility 
requirements listed in reference (d).  Applications will not be accepted for 
Cyber Chief Warrant Officer CWO2 (784X).
    g.  Submarine Communications LDO (629X) applicants must meet requirements 
in line with references (e) and (f) to off-ramp to their parent designator.
    h.  Applications will not be accepted for Aviation Operations LDO (632X) 
in line with reference (g).
    i.  Intelligence CWO applicants will be considered for selection into one 
of three Core Competency Areas (CCA):  CI/HUMINT, GEOINT/Targeting or 
OPINTEL.  In order to apply, applicants must possess a NEC code that aligns 
with the CCA.  Specifically, CI/HUMINT Technicians must hold 3913/K13A (MAGTF 
CI/HUMINT Specialist).  GEOINT/Targeting Technicians must hold 3910/K10A 
(Geospatial Interpretation Analyst), 3923/K23A (Strike Warfare Intelligence 
Analyst) or 3927/K27A (Advanced Strike and Tomahawk Land Attack Missile 
(TLAM) Mensuration Analyst).  OPINTEL Technicians must hold 3912/K12A 
(Expeditionary Warfare Intelligence
Specialist) or 3924/K24A (Operational Intelligence Analyst).  All applicants 
must request a primary CCA and those holding qualifying NECs in more than one 
field may request a secondary CCA.  Applicants must place the CCA title 
behind the 783X designator on the application (i.e., 783X Intelligence 
Technician).  Applicants must also have earned the Enlisted Information 
Warfare Specialist (EIWS) qualification to be considered eligible.  However, 
applicants may submit a waiver for consideration if they were not afforded 
the opportunity to earn EIWS due to absence of a command program.
Selection is based on demonstrated technical expertise in each field.
    j.  Nuclear Power LDO (620X) applications will submit in addition to 
their application:
        (1) Other information applicants consider pertinent to their 
application not contained in their Official Military Personnel File (OMPF).  
The member should submit sequentially numbered enclosures to the application.  
All enclosures should be annotated on the bottom right of each page with the 
last name of the applicant and *Enclosure X of Y* with X being the sequential 
number of the enclosure and Y being the total number of enclosures.
        (2) E-6 applicants must submit a copy of their current E-7 
examination profile sheet showing chief petty officer board eligibility as 
enclosure (1) to their application.
        (3) The engineering watch supervisor (EWS) or propulsion plant watch 
supervisor (PPWS) qualification is required to apply for Nuclear Power LDO 
(620X).  E-6 applicants must ensure that EWS or PPWS qualification is 
documented via evaluations, CO endorsement or enclosed designation letter.  
Since EWS/PPWS qualification is a requirement for selection to chief petty 
officer, selected chief petty officers and above do not need to submit this 
documentation.
        (4) Nuclear Power LDO (620X) applicants are not required to submit 
interview appraisals or medical documentation of color vision test.
        (5) It is preferred that COs indicate the ranking among nuclear 
candidates from their command, even if one of one.
        (6) All Nuclear Power LDO (620X) applicant packages will be forwarded 
to Naval Reactors for technical review prior to presentation to the FY-21 
Active-Duty Nuclear Power LDO ISPB.
        (7) Sailors selected for Nuclear Power LDO (620X) will require a 
separate technical interview at Naval Reactors to receive a commission.  
Those Sailors not successfully completing a final technical interview will 
maintain their enlisted status and will not be commissioned as LDOs.  
Additionally, these Sailors are ineligible to submit future applications to 
the Nuclear Power LDO (620X) program.  Technical interviews will be scheduled 
by Nuclear Placement and Assignments Branch (PERS-422) and selectees notified 
via separate correspondence.
    k.  CO/OIC endorsements must contain the following statement:
*Applicant meets all requirements outlined in OPNAVINST 1420.1B, NAVADMIN 
XXX/19 (use the NAVADMIN # for this message) and the physical fitness 
standards of OPNAVINST 6110.1J.*  It is preferred that COs indicate the 
ranking among candidates from their command, even if one of one.  The 
endorsement should also clearly state the command and name/rank of the CO.
    l.  Applicants are not required to include an obligatory service 
statement to remain on Active Duty as part of their personal statement.  This 
requirement is included as part of the appointment documentation signed upon 
commissioning.

6.  First class petty officers serving in Iraq, Afghanistan and the Horn of 
Africa determined to be chief petty officer board eligible in line with 
reference (h) are also eligible for LDO if all other eligibility requirements 
are met.

7.  Interview appraisal boards shall be constructed and approved by the 
CO/OIC and consist of three Active Duty naval officers (LDOs or CWOs 
preferred).  The senior member of the interview panel for applicants applying 
for LDO or CWO should be a lieutenant commander
(LCDR) or above.  For CWO applicants, the senior member of the interview 
panel can be a CWO4 or above if a LCDR or above is not available.  Every 
effort (including teleconference media) shall be made to ensure at least one 
board member is from the designator for which the applicant is applying.  
Minimum grade requirements for board members are lieutenant or CWO3.  Three 
interview appraisals must be submitted for each applicant.  The potential 
block on interview appraisals must be marked for LDO and CWO candidates.
Only the current version of the interviewer appraisal sheet will be accepted.  
The interviewer appraisal sheet is located via MNP at
https://www.mnp.navy.mil/group/career-planning/commissioning-
programs.  Click the *Active-Duty LDO/CWO ISPB link, then select LDO and CWO 
ISPB to download the form.  Nuclear applicants do not require interview 
appraisal boards.

8.  Applicants who have or are currently serving in an Individual 
Augmentation Manpower Management (IAMM), Global Support Assignment
(GSA) or Overseas Contingency Operations Support Assignment (OSA) are to 
include these tours in the assignment history section of the application.  
CO/OIC recommendation must include validation of any listed IA/GSA 
assignment.

9.  Applicants currently serving in an IAMM, GSA or OSA assignment may have 
their application endorsed by the field commander.  All applications endorsed 
by field commanders must have parent command concurrence.  A sample format is 
located via MNP at
https://www.mnp.navy.mil/group/career-planning/commissioning-
programs.  Click the *Active-Duty LDO/CWO ISPB* link then select LDO and CWO 
ISPB to download the form (See Sample Addendum Letter).

10.  Applicants must ensure copies of their most recent periodic evaluations 
are included in the application or provided via addendum for board review and 
continuity.  First class petty officers must submit the 15 November 2019 
evaluation via an addendum if it is not already reflected in their OMPF.

11.  Due to ongoing rating mergers or realignments, eligible Sailors are 
encouraged to apply for the designator for which they have extensive 
documented technical and leadership experience in their enlisted service 
records, regardless of current rating.  However, special attention should be 
given to the guidance in chapter 7, subparagraph 9c of reference (a).

12.  Applicants must maintain eligibility throughout the selection and 
promotion process.  Applicants who are deemed ineligible after submitting an 
application must be declared ineligible by their current CO/OIC.  The sample 
format is located via MNP at the *Active-Duty LDO/CWO ISPB* link, then select 
LDO and CWO ISPB to download the form (See Sample Letter of Abeyance or 
Removal of Recommendation).  Nuclear applicants who are deemed ineligible 
must be declared ineligible by their current CO via letter to Nuclear Program 
Manager (OPNAV N133).

13.  Each applicant and command leadership must ensure applications are 
complete and accurate.  Incomplete applications could result in non-
selection.  Refer to reference (a), (chapters 2 and 7) for security clearance 
information, program overview, eligibility criteria and application format.

14.  The FY-21 Active-Duty LDO and CWO ISPB and FY-21 Active-Duty Nuclear 
Power LDO ISPB will convene at dates to be determined in January 2020.  For 
the most current board dates, visit MNP at
https://www.mnp.navy.mil/group/advancement-and-promotion/active-
duty-enlisted and select *Selection Board Schedule* then *FY-21 board 
schedule* when available.
    a.  E-mailed applications must be received by the MyNavy Career Center 
(MNCC) no later than (NLT) 1 October 2019.  Submit applications via e-mail to 
cscselboard(at)navy.mil.  E-mails must be sent encrypted using a military e-
mail account to protect personally identifiable information.  Applicants who 
are unable to submit applications as outlined above due to current 
operational location must contact the selection board sponsor via e-mail at 
npc_ldo- cwo_selbd.fct(at)navy.mil for instructions on physically mailing the 
application.  Mailed applications must be postmarked NLT 1 October 2019.  
Routine addendums to applications, excluding evaluations and awards, must be 
received NLT 1 December 2019.  Evaluations and awards must be received NLT 1 
January 2020.  Applications must be signed by the CO of the applicant or 
*Acting*.  Addendums can be signed *By direction* if the CO or OIC is 
unavailable.
Communication to the board must originate from the individual Service Member.  
Information received that is not under the cover letter of the applicant 
(e.g., third party correspondence) and endorsed by the command, or not 
received by MNCC by the established
deadline(s) will not be presented to the board.  The time and date Central 
Standard Time (CST) received by MNCC inbox is the time and date used for 
deadline verification.  Although a late submission may be accepted by MNCC, 
it will not be presented to the board.  All applications/addendums must have 
the full social security number of the Sailor on each page.  Electronic and 
hard copy addendums must include a command endorsement.  The FY-21 Active-
Duty LDO and CWO ISPB board number is 21181.
    b.  Nuclear applications must be received NLT 1 October 2019.
Addendums will only be accepted to submit November 2019 E-6 evaluations and 
correct application errors.  Addendums must be received NLT 2 December 2019.  
Information received that is not under the cover letter of the applicant 
(e.g., third party
correspondence) and endorsed by the command or not received by the 
established deadline will not be presented to the board.  Electronic 
submission of applications and addendums is encouraged and preferred.  The 
time and date CST received via e-mail at pers- 422b_desk.fct(at)navy.mil and 
ensure the time and date used for deadline verification.  Applicants who are 
unable to submit applications as outlined about due to operational 
commitments must contact the selection board sponsor via e-mail at 
nukeldo(at)navy.mil.  Applications should be scanned, submitted and sent via 
encrypted e-mail to pers-422b_desk.fct(at)navy.mil (preferred method).

15.  For the most current application process visit the Administrative Boards 
Branch website via MNP at
https://www.mnp.navy.mil/group/career-planning/commissioning-
programs.  Click the *Active-Duty LDO/CWO ISPB* link, then select LDO and CWO 
ISPB to access the current application, application help and a review 
checklist for commands to print and include in the application folder.  This 
site also contains guidance such as NPC CSC mailing information, how to 
monitor application status after the Enlisted Administrative Selection Board 
Branch review and how to reconcile application errors via addendum if items 
or corrections are required for completeness or eligibility.
To check receipt of the application or addendum, visit MNP at
https://www.mnp.navy.mil/group/career-planning/commissioning-
programs.  Click the *To check receipt of application/addendum* link then log 
into MNCC.

16.  Points of contact.
     a.  For application and eligibility questions contact the NPC board 
sponsor LT Randall Beal at (901) 874-3170/DSN 882, or via e- mail at npc_ldo-
cwo_selbd.fct(at)navy.mil.
     b.  For general LDO/CWO career path and policy questions contact LT 
Shanique Howard at (901) 874-2236/DSN 882, or via e-mail at 
shanique.d.howard(at)navy.mil, CWO5 Hector Sandoval at (901) 874- 2464/DSN 
882, or via e-mail at hector.sandoval(at)navy.mil or Mr.
Mitch Allen (901) 874-3044/DSN 882 or via e-mail at 
mitchell.allen(at)navy.mil.
     c.  For nuclear-trained Sailor application and eligibility questions, 
contact LCDR Phil Davis at (703) 604-5489/DSN 664, or via e-mail at 
nukeldo(at)navy.mil.

17.  This NAVADMIN will remain in effect until superseded or 30 September 
2020, whichever comes first.

18.  Released by Vice Admiral John B. Nowell, Jr, N1.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//

