UNCLASSIFIED//

ROUTINE

R 192009Z MAR 19

FM CNO WASHINGTON DC

TO NAVADMIN

INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC

BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 070/19

PASS TO OFFICE CODES:
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/MAR//

SUBJ/INTERIM GUIDANCE FOR SERVICE IN THE NAVY BY TRANSGENDER PERSONS AND 
PERSONS WITH GENDER DYSPHORIA//

REF/A/DOC/SECDEF/12MAR19//

REF/B/MSG/SECNAV WASHINGTON DC/182121ZMAR19//

REF/C/DOC/SECDEF/22FEB18//

REF/D/DOC/SECDEF/30JUN16//

REF/E/DOC/DOD/1JUL16//

REF/F/MSG/SECNAV WASHINGTON DC/051937ZAUG16//

REF/G/DOC/SECNAV/4NOV16//

REF/H/DOC/COMNAVPERSCOM/7NOV16//

REF/I/DOC/COMNAVRESFOR/25JAN17//

REF/J/DOC/BUPERS/3MAY13//

REF/K/DOC/DOD/24SEP15//

REF/L/DOC/DOD/30JUL18//

NARR/REF A IS SECDEF DTM 19-004, DIRECTIVE-TYPE MEMORANDUM (DTM) 19- 004, 
MILITARY SERVICE BY TRANSGENDER SERVICE MEMBERS.  REF B IS ALNAV 022/19, 
SERVICE OF TRANSGENDER SAILORS AND MARINES INTERIM GUIDANCE.  REF C IS SECDEF 
MEMORANDUM FOR THE PRESIDENT 22 FEB 2018, MILITARY SERVICE BY TRANSGENDER 
INDIVIDUALS.  REF D IS SECDEF DTM 16-005, DIRECTIVE-TYPE MEMORANDUM (DTM) 16-
005, MILITARY SERVICE OF TRANSGENDER SERVICE MEMBERS.  REF E IS DOD 
INSTRUCTION 1300.28, IN- SERVICE TRANSITION FOR TRANSGENDER SERVICE MEMBERS.  
REF F IS ALNAV 053/16, SERVICE OF TRANSGENDER SAILORS AND MARINES INTERIM 
GUIDANCE.
REF G IS SECNAVINST 1000.11, SERVICE OF TRANSGENDER SAILORS AND MARINES.  REF 
H IS MILPERSMAN 1000-131, MEMBER GENDER CHANGE MARKER.
REF I IS RESPERSMAN 6000-010, RESERVE MEDICAL.  REF J IS BUPERSINST 1001.39F 
CH-1, ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURES FOR NAVY RESERVISTS.  REF K IS DOD 
INSTRUCTION 1322.22, SERVICE ACADEMIES.  REF L IS DOD INSTRUCTION 1332.45, 
DOD RETENTION DETERMINATIONS FOR NON-DEPLOYABLE SERVICE MEMBERS.//

RMKS/1.  The Secretary of Defense announced in reference (a) the 
implementation of updated policy guidance for military service by transgender 
persons and persons with gender dysphoria.  This NAVADMIN provides interim 
guidance for policy, regulations and procedures related to the service of 
transgender Navy personnel.

2.  Exempt Individuals
    a.  As outlined in references (a) through (c), individuals who entered 
into a contract for enlistment or were selected for entrance into an officer 
commissioning program, before 12 April 2019, and either were medically 
qualified for military service or selected for entrance into an officer 
commissioning program in their preferred gender in accordance with reference 
(d) or, as a Service Member, received a diagnosis of gender dysphoria from, 
or had such diagnosis confirmed by, a military medical provider (MMP) before 
12 April 2019, are exempt from reference (a) and are subject to reference (d) 
and may continue to receive all necessary medical treatment to protect the 
health of the individual, obtain a gender marker change in the Defense 
Enrollment Eligibility Reporting System (DEERS) and serve in their preferred 
gender in line with references (e) through (l).
    b.  As outlined in references (a) through (c), Service Members who 
received a diagnosis of gender dysphoria and are currently undergoing gender 
transition before the effective date of reference (a), 12 April 2019, are 
also considered exempt.  Those Service Members who are exempt may continue to 
receive all medically necessary treatment, obtain a gender marker change in 
DEERS and serve in their preferred gender in line with references (e) through 
(l).

3.  Policy Description
    a.  A description of the new policy for military service by transgender 
persons and persons with gender dysphoria, referred to as the 2018 Policy, 
follows below.  A comparison is made with the
2016 Policy to highlight the changes and an explanation of the exemption 
policy is provided.  The 2018 Policy will supersede the
2016 Policy on 12 April 2019.
    b.  Accession of individuals diagnosed with gender dysphoria.
        (1) 2016 Policy.  An individual with a history of gender dysphoria 
who completed gender transition could enter the Navy in their preferred 
gender, provided they could demonstrate 18 months of stability as confirmed 
by a licensed medical provider.
        (2) 2018 Policy.  An individual with a history or diagnosis of gender 
dysphoria may enter the Navy, provided they can demonstrate 36 consecutive 
months of stability in their biological sex immediately preceding their 
application as certified by a licensed mental health provider, a licensed 
medical provider confirms they have not transitioned to their preferred 
gender and transition is not necessary to protect their health, and they are 
willing and able to adhere to all standards associated with their biological 
sex.  No otherwise qualified individual shall be denied accession solely on 
the basis of gender identity.
    c.  Retention of Service Members diagnosed with gender dysphoria.
        (1) 2016 Policy.  Service Members who were diagnosed with gender 
dysphoria after entering military service could receive medical treatment, 
complete gender transition with gender marker change in DEERS and serve in 
their preferred gender as long as all deployability standards were met.
        (2) 2018 Policy.  Service Members who are diagnosed with gender 
dysphoria on or after the effective date of reference (a), 12 April 2019, may 
be retained without waiver if a military medical provider has determined that 
gender transition is not medically necessary to protect the health of the 
individual, and they are willing and able to adhere to all standards 
associated with their biological sex and meet all deployability standards.  
No otherwise qualified Service Member shall be involuntarily separated, 
discharged or denied reenlistment or continuation of service solely on the 
basis of gender identity.
    d.  Exceptions to Policy (ETP)
        (1) Currently serving Service Members who are deployed or otherwise 
unable to access an approved MMP to receive a diagnosis of gender dysphoria 
before 12 April 2019, may submit a request to be considered exempt beyond the 
effective date of reference (a).  This request must be routed to the 
commanding officer (CO) by the Service Member no later than 12 April 2019 and 
must contain a presumptive diagnosis from a provider (e.g., independent duty 
corpsman or civilian provider).  The request must be forwarded with an 
endorsement from the CO of the Service Member verifying the inability of the 
member to access an approved MMP by the effective date of reference (a).  The 
ETP request shall be submitted through the first flag or general officer in 
the chain of command to be adjudicated by Deputy Chief of Naval Operations 
(Manpower, Personnel, Training and Education) (DCNO(N1)).
        (2)  All other ETP requests shall be submitted through the first flag 
or general officer in the chain of command, via DCNO(N1), to the Assistant 
Secretary of the Navy (Manpower and Reserve
Affairs) for adjudication.

4.  Additional Guidance
    a.  All Service Members are expected to continue to treat each other with 
dignity and respect.  There is zero tolerance for harassment, hazing or 
bullying of any Service Member in any form.
    b.  Civilian Attire.  Service Members may live socially in their 
preferred gender while off-duty.  There is no policy that prohibits the 
ability of a Service Member to express themselves off-duty in their preferred 
gender.  Appropriate civilian attire, as outlined in the uniform regulations, 
will not be determined based on gender.
Regional commanders and the senior officers present may suspend or restrict 
the privilege of wearing preferred gender civilian attire to meet local 
conditions and host-nation agreements with foreign countries.
    c.  Facilities.  Service Members will use gender-specific berthing, head 
and shower facilities according to the gender reflected in Navy personnel 
administrative systems/DEERS.
    d.  Security Clearances.  Any change in the status of a Service Member 
(e.g., marriage, divorce, addition of dependents) is reportable to the 
command security manager in order to maintain a national security clearance.  
This includes changes to name and gender of a Service Member.  A Standard 
Form 86 Certification (SF
86C) allows reporting of changes in previously reported information on the 
Questionnaire for National Security Positions (SF 86).

5.  Reserve Component (RC).  All Department of Defense and Navy policies 
regarding accessing and retaining transgender personnel are applicable to 
both Active Component and RC Service Members.  Full- Time Support personnel 
will follow the policy and procedures as described in the preceding 
paragraphs.

6.  Resources
    a.  COs with questions or concerns may contact the Navy Service Central 
Coordination Cell (SCCC) at (703) 604-5084/DSN 664 or via e- mail at 
usn_navy_sccc(at)navy.mil.
    b.  Service Members diagnosed with gender dysphoria or who identify as 
transgender should work with their medical provider and chain of command 
before contacting the SCCC.
    c.  The COs Toolkit and additional resources may be found on the Navy 
Personnel Command web site at
http://www.public.navy.mil/bupers-
npc/support/21st_Century_Sailor/lgbt/Pages/default.aspx.

7.  This NAVADMIN remains in effect until superseded or canceled.

8.  Released by Vice Admiral R. P. Burke, N1.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//

