UNCLASSIFIED
ROUTINE
R 261821Z JAN 17
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC
BT
UNCLAS
PASS TO OFFICE CODES:
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//

NAVADMIN 016/17

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/JAN//

SUBJ/OFFICERS AND ENLISTED APPLICATIONS BEING ACCEPTED BY NAVY FLIGHT 
DEMONSTRATION SQUADRON FOR 2018//

REF/A/DOC/CNATRA/8AUG14//
AMPN/ REF A IS CNATRAINST 1301.4L, OFFICER APPLICATION PROCEDURES FOR THE 
BLUE ANGELS.//

RMKS/1.  The United States Navy Flight Demonstration Squadron (NFDS) Blue 
Angels will select:  two F/A-18 demonstration pilots (both Navy and Marine 
Corps Pilots are encouraged to apply), one Marine Corps C-130 demonstration 
pilot for the 2018-2020 show seasons, one maintenance officer for the 2018-
2019 show seasons, and one public affairs officer for the 2018-2019 show 
seasons.  All officers should submit applications as directed in reference 
(a) by 30 April 2017. All applicants shall contact their detailer/monitor 
prior to applying to ensure adequate timing to complete a two or three year 
tour without impacting career milestones.  Manpower Management Officer 
Assignments (MMOA) will release a separate MARADMIN that outlines Marine 
Corps applicant eligibility requirements.  Final selections will be made in 
July 2017 for all officer applicants. Officers selected will normally detach 
from their present command in August 2017 and report in early September 2017.

2.  Applicants should be career oriented, active-duty Navy and Marine Corps 
officers with the following specific qualifications:
    a.  F/A-18 demonstration pilot applicants must be carrier qualified 
tactical jet pilots with approximately 1,250 hours of jet flight time by 30 
September of the year applying and have completed an operational fleet tour.
    b.  Maintenance Officer applicants must be designated Aviation 
Maintenance Officers (152X/633X/734X) (O4/O3/W4/W3) and be on, or have 
completed, an operational fleet tour.
    c.  Marine Corps C-130 demonstration pilot applicants must have 1,200 
hours of flight time and hold an aircraft commander rating in the C-
130F/R/T/J model aircraft.
   d.  Public affairs officer applicants must be designated as Navy or Marine 
Corps public affairs officers (165X or USMC MOS 4302) (O4/O3).

3.  Selectees will be approved by Bureau of Naval Personnel/MMOA prior to 
public notification.  Navy/Marine Corps pilots will be required to remain on 
active duty for two years following completion of their assignment with the 
Blue Angels.

4.  Reference (a), delineates application procedures.  All applications 
submitted via mail through 1 March 2017 should be sent to:
    Commanding Officer
    Navy Flight Demonstration Squadron
    Attn:  LT Tyler M. Davies
    P.O. Box 760
    Seeley, CA 92273-0760
Applications being submitted from 2 March 2017 through 28 April 2017 should 
be sent to:
    Commanding Officer
    Navy Flight Demonstration Squadron
    Attn:  LT Tyler M. Davies
    390 San Carlos Road, Suite A
    Pensacola, FL 32508-5508
Applications may also be delivered in person beginning 20 March 2017.

5.  For additional information, visit the Blue Angels website at
www.blueangels.navy.mil or contact the Blue Angels Applicants Officer, 
LT Tyler Davies, in Pensacola, FL at (850)452-4650/DSN 922, in El Centro, CA 
(January thru Mid-March) at (760)339-2509/DSN 645 or via email at 
tyler.davies(at)navy.mil.

6.  This NAVADMIN also announces requirements and solicits enlisted 
applications.  Applications must be postmarked no later than 1 May 2017.  
Selection results will be available no later than June 2017. Personnel with a 
projected rotation date of September 2017 through April 2018 are eligible, 
but others may apply with command and detailer approval.  Personnel selected 
will normally detach from their present command in August or September 2017 
and report in early October 2017.

7.  There are open E5/E6 billets within the following Navy ratings:
AD, AM, AME, AE, AT, AO, AS, AZ, PR, MC, LS, YN and HM (Navy Enlisted 
Classification 8406).  Additionally, applications are being accepted for 
chief petty officer billets in the following Navy ratings:  AE, AT, AZ.  
Platform specific experience is not a requirement to apply.

8.  Personnel selected for this unique and demanding duty represent the 
hundreds of thousands of Sailors and Marines serving throughout the United 
States and abroad.  Applicants must meet the requirements listed below to be 
considered for duty with the Blue Angels (waivers are not normally 
considered).
    a.  Must not be in receipt of permanent change of station orders before 
final selections are made in June 2017.
    b.  No non-judicial punishment or courts-martial convictions in the last 
36 months.
    c.  No alcohol-related incidents (civil or military) in the last 36 
months.  Driving under the influence/driving while intoxicated convictions 
within the last five years are disqualifying.
    d.  No financial instability/command directed counseling in the last 36 
months.  Applicants must be eligible for a government credit card (this is 
not waiverable).
    e.  No physical fitness assessment failures in the last 36 months.  
Personnel who have had medical waivers in the last 24 months will be 
considered on a case-by-case basis only.
    f.  Visible tattoos while wearing the enlisted service uniform must be in 
compliance with uniform regulations.  Sleeve style tattoos are prohibited.
    g.  Must possess a valid and current license to drive.
    h.  Re-enlistment approval is not required to submit an application.

9.  Interested candidates meeting the above requirements must first submit a 
fully completed Enlisted Personnel Action Request (NAVPERS 1306/7) and 
Special Program Screening Form (NAVPERS 1306/92) as directed in MILPERSMAN 
1306-919 to their respective rating detailer via their commanding officer.  
After submission of NAVPERS 1306/7 and NAVPERS 1306/92 to their detailer, 
applicants must submit an application to NFDS using the following criteria 
(ensure all telephone numbers, mailing addresses and e-mail addresses are 
included).
    a.  Commanding officer signed letter of endorsement on command 
letterhead, which must include:  a statement on military appearance and 
tattoos, an evaluation of the members speaking ability, the members demeanor, 
professional knowledge, and leadership skills.
    b.  Copy of NAVPERS 1306/7.
    c.  Original NAVPERS 1306/92.
    d.  Include copies of last five evaluations.
    e.  Provide official 5 x 7 inch photograph (front, side, back) in 
enlisted service uniform uncovered (Khakis for E7-E9 applicants).
    f.  Common application errors include lack of detailed contact 
information, unsigned NAVPERS 1306/7 and NAVPERS 1306/92, NAVPERS 1306/7 not 
sent to the detailer, no commanding officer endorsement, missing evaluations, 
photos not included, packages sent to the detailer rather than the NFDS, and 
earliest and latest transfer dates not filled out in remarks section NAVPERS 
1306/7.

10.  Enlisted Applications may be sent via e-mail to jairo.guity(at)navy.mil 
or by mail to:

    Commanding Officer
    Navy Flight Demonstration Squadron
    Attn:  LSC(AW) Jairo Guity
    390 San Carlos Road Suite A
    Pensacola, FL 32508-5508

11.  The medical record of the applicant will be reviewed during the 
application process.

12.  Candidates should call the NFDS two weeks after mailing their 
application to verify receipt and to schedule an interview.  All personnel 
currently stationed in the continental United States, including those who may 
be deployed, but will return prior to final selections, are highly encouraged 
to interview in person, but not required.  Funding for travel is provided by 
the Service Member or their parent command.  NFDS does not provide funding 
for interviews. Personnel permanently assigned outside the continental United 
States (including Hawaii and Alaska) or while deployed will interview via 
telephone.  Personal interviews are conducted at Naval Air Facility El 
Centro, CA from February to March.  Interviews are conducted at Naval Air 
Station Pensacola, FL, or any show site from mid-March through May.  Last 
week to interview will be 8-12 May 2017.

13.  Point of contact is LSC(AW) Jairo Guity at (760) 339-2005/DSN 658, from 
3 January 2017 to 14 March 2017, at (850) 452-2086/DSN 922, after 15 March 
2017, or via e-mail at jairo.guity(at)navy.mil. For further information, 
visit the Blue Angels web site at www.blueangels.navy.mil.

14.  This NAVADMIN will remain in effect until superseded or canceled, 
whichever occurs first.

15.  Released by Vice Admiral R. P. Burke, N1.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
