UNCLASSIFIED//

REROUTE DETECTED  

ROUTINE

R 091838Z OCT 14 PSN 986924K38

FM CNO WASHINGTON DC

TO NAVADMIN

BT
UNCLAS

SUBJ/FY-16 ENLISTED SELECTION BOARDS FOR NAVY RESERVE AND ACTIVE DUTY MASTER 
CHIEF AND SENIOR CHIEF PETTY OFFICERS CYCLE 225// 

NAVADMIN 237/14

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/OCT//

REF/A/DOC/BUPERS/2NOV07//

REF/B/DOC/COMNAVPERSCOM/1JUL12//

REF/C/DOC/SECNAV/1JUN06//

REF/D/DOC/COMNAVPERSCOM/15MAY11//

REF/E/MSG/CNO WASHINGTON DC/282147ZJAN13//

NARR/REF A IS BUPERSINST 1430.16F, ADVANCEMENT MANUAL FOR THE ENLISTED 
PERSONNEL OF U.S. NAVY AND U.S. NAVY RESERVE.  REF B IS NAVAL MILITARY 
PERSONNEL MANUAL (MILPERSMAN) 1160-120, HIGH YEAR TENURE (HYT).  REF C IS 
SECNAV MANUAL 5510.30, NAVY PERSONNEL SECURITY PROGRAM.  REF D IS MILPERSMAN 
1070-080, ENLISTED OFFICIAL MILITARY PERSONNEL FILE (OMPF).  REF E IS 
NAVADMIN 016/13 SUBMISSION OF NAVY AWARDS TO THE OFFICIAL MILITARY PERSONNEL 
FILE.

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN announces the convening of the FY-16 E8/E9 Selection 
Boards for Navy reserve and active-duty personnel.  The reserve board will 
consider personnel serving on active-duty as Full Time Support (FTS) and 
Selected Reserve (SELRES), to include those serving on voluntary and 
involuntary recall and mobilization orders.
Mobilized Individual Ready Reserve (IRR) personnel are considered under the 
SELRES requirements for advancement.  It is the responsibility of the 
candidate and command to ensure that the candidate*s OMPF is up-to-date and 
any discrepancy impacting the eligibility of the candidate, to include being 
in the correct competitive group, is identified to Commander, Navy Personnel 
Command (CNPC) (PERS 802/812) prior to the board convening.

2.  Timeline of Events:
    a.  24 October 2014.  CNPC (PERS-802) compiles and submits initial time-
in-rate (TIR) eligibility list of candidates to Naval Education and Training 
Professional Development and Technology Center (NETPDTC) (N321).
    b.  19 November 2014.  E8/E9 Examination Status Verification Reports 
(ESVR) will be accessible by Education Services Officers
(ESO) and command designated personnel via NETPDTC's Navy Enlisted 
Advancement System (NEAS) website, https://neasos.cnet.navy.mil/.
The ESVR is the sole source for E7/E8 TIR eligibility verification and will 
be available as follows:
        (1) Reserve E8/E9:  20 November 2014 * 22 March 2015
        (2) Active E9:  20 November 2014 * 12 April 2015
        (3) Active E8:  20 November 2014 * 3 May 2015
    c.  ESOs and command designated personnel must verify the ESVR for 
accuracy and re-verify weekly thereafter until the scheduled board convening 
date, and if necessary, take the following actions per reference (a).
        (1) Eligible candidates not listed.  Mail or send an encrypted e-mail 
containing a completed Advancement in Rate or Change in Rating worksheet 
(NETPDTC 1430/3 Rev 06-14) along with a letter of transmittal to NETPDTC 
(N321).
        (2) Listed ineligible or not recommended personnel.  Submit a message 
notification to NETPDTC (N321) and info CNPC
(PERS-802/812) requesting invalidation of eligibility status and provide 
explanation for invalidation.  Per reference (a), withdrawal of advancement 
recommendation must be completed and documented prior to message 
transmission.
        (3) Candidates validated in wrong competitive category.
Submit message notification to CNPC (PERS-802/812) detailing the discrepancy.
    d.  Letter to the board (LTB) deadlines and selection board convening 
dates are established below.  LTBs must be accepted by the CNPC Customer 
Service Center (CSC) on or before the deadline or it will not be presented to 
the board.  This supersedes reference (a).
        (1) 9 February 2015:  LTB deadline to the Reserve E8/9 selection 
board.
        (2) 2 March 2015:  FY-16 Reserve E8/E9 selection board convenes.
        (3) 9 March 2015:  LTB deadline to the active-duty E9 selection 
board.
        (4) 30 March 2015:  FY-16 Active Duty E9 selection board convenes.
        (5) 30 March 2015:  LTB deadline to the active-duty E8 selection 
board.
        (6) 20 April 2015:  FY-16 Active Duty E8 selection board convenes.

3.  Eligibility Criteria:
    a.  Sailors not selected to continue from a Senior Enlisted Continuation 
Board (SECB) are ineligible for advancement.
    b.  Candidates must meet eligibility requirements outlined in reference 
(a), by 1 November 2014.
    c.  Candidates who do not have a recommendation for advancement on their 
most recent chief evaluation shall not be validated.
Evaluations that restore a recommendation for advancement must be made 
available to the selection board prior to the board convening date.
    d.  Terminal eligibility date (TED).  The TED for Cycle 225 is
1 October 2015.  This date shall be used to compute and determine TIR 
eligibility per reference (a).
    e.  Commissioning programs.  Candidates selected for Seaman to Admiral 
(STA-21), Medical Enlisted Commissioning Program, and Medical Service Corps 
In-Service Procurement Program remain eligible for advancement consideration 
to senior chief and master chief petty officer.  Candidates selected to any 
other officer commissioning programs are ineligible and must be invalidated 
by their command.
    f.  High year tenure (HYT).  Per reference (b), candidates who reach HYT 
on or after 1 July 2015, or who have received a HYT waiver to remain on 
active duty (or remain in SELRES status) beyond 1 July
2015 prior to the board convening date are eligible for consideration by the 
selection board.  Candidates with a HYT date prior to 1 July 2015 are not 
eligible.
    g.  Members who have submitted involuntary Fleet Reserve (FLTRES)/retired 
list.  Voluntary FLTRES are those not mandated by HYT; requests due to HYT 
are eligible for advancement and selection board consideration provided their 
HYT date for the present paygrade is 1 July 2015 or later per reference (a).  
An approved or pending voluntary FLTRES/retirement request must be 
successfully disapproved, canceled, or modified to an involuntary date prior 
to the board convening to render a candidate selection board eligible.
    h.  Security clearance requirements.  All personnel in certain ratings 
must maintain continuous security clearance eligibility.
A favorable investigation adjudication must be issued from Department of 
Defense Central Adjudication Facility (DODCAF) or the member*s commanding 
officer (CO) must grant temporary access, an interim clearance, prior to the 
first day of the month of the respective boards convening date, to be board 
eligible.  COs must follow procedures in reference (c) to grant interim 
access.  Sailors in the following ratings who do not meet this requirement 
are ineligible for advancement and will not be considered board
eligible:  AC, AE, AVCM, AG, AO, ATI, ATO, AWF, AWO, AWR, AWS, AWV, AZ, CTI, 
CTM, CTN, CTR, CTT, EMCM, EOD, ET, FC, FT, GM, HT, IC, IS, IT, ITS, LN, MA, 
MC, MN, MT, ND, OS, QM, SB, SO, STG, STS, YN, and all nuclear  and submarine 
ratings.  This guidance supersedes reference (a).
    i.  Branch class (BRCL) and special program indicator (SPI) code.  The 
Navy accounting status for BRCL 32 Sailors must be verified via the command's 
Enlisted Distribution Verification Report (EDVR).  Naval Reserve personnel on 
active duty with a blank SPI Code are in an invalid status that may result in 
assignment of an incorrect advancement competitive category.  Commands must 
correct the error via the Navy Standard Integrated Personnel System (NSIPS) 
or the Sailor may seek relief via petitioning the Board for Correction of 
Naval Records (BCNR).  Sailors in this accounting status as of the board 
convening date will be invalidated.

4.  Special requirements for nuclear trained personnel (these requirements 
must be met prior to the regularly scheduled board convening date):
    a.  To be eligible for advancement to E8, submarine sailors in nuclear 
ratings must hold a supervisor Navy Enlisted Classification (NEC) (3363, 
3364, 3365, 3366).  Personnel must also hold a nuclear qualified secondary 
NEC 3302 (engineering department master chief (EDMC)).  A NAVPERS 1221/6 
requesting a secondary NEC of 3302 must be submitted to OPNAV N133 by 10 
April 2015.  E-mail the NAVPERS 1221/6 and copy of qualification card to 
bullnuke(at)navy.mil via Force EDMC.  Additional contact information 
available via http://www.public.navy.mil/bupers-
npc/enlisted/community/nuclear/pages/nuclearenlistedprograms.aspx.
    b.  To be eligible for advancement to E8, surface Sailors in nuclear 
ratings must hold a supervisor NEC (3393, 3394, 3395, 3396).
    c.  To be eligible for advancement to E9, submarine Sailors in nuclear 
ratings must hold a supervisor NEC (3363, 3364, 3365, 3366).
Personnel must also hold a secondary NEC 3302 and have served or be currently 
serving as an EDMC of a submarine.  Acceptable documentation of EDMC service 
for review by the advancement board includes an evaluation with "EDMC" in 
Block 29/41 or a letter from the CO via the member providing dates of EDMC 
service.  Sailors without EDMC service documented in their service record 
must submit documentation with their LTB providing dates of EDMC service.
    d.  To be eligible for advancement to E9, surface Sailors in nuclear 
ratings must hold a supervisor NEC (3393, 3394, 3395, 3396), and must have 
served, or be currently serving as, a division leading chief petty officer 
(DLCPO) of a nuclear division at sea (reactor mechanical, reactor electrical, 
reactor controls, reactor propulsion, or reactor laboratories), reactor 
training division officer (RT DIVO) at sea, or leading crew chief (LCC) of a 
prototype.  E8s who are billeted as Reactor Department Master Chief (RDMC) in 
lieu of DLCPO are also eligible for advancement to E9.  Acceptable 
documentation of DLCPO, RT DIVO, LCC, or RMDC service for review by the 
advancement board includes an evaluation with DLCPO, RT DIVO, LCC, or RMDC in 
Block 29/41 or a letter from the CO via the member to the board providing 
dates of DLCPO, RT DIVO, LCC, or RMDC service.  Sailors without DLCPO, RT 
DIVO, LCC, or RMDC service documented in their service record must submit 
documentation with their LTB providing dates of DLCPO, RT DIVO, LCC, or RMDC 
service.

5.  Special requirements for Navy Diver (ND) personnel.  To be eligible for 
advancement to E8, Sailors must hold the first class diver NEC (5342) or the 
master diver NEC (5341) prior to the regularly scheduled board convening 
date.  To be eligible for advancement to E9, Sailors must hold the master 
diver NEC (5341) prior to the regularly scheduled board convening date.

6.  Special requirements for explosive ordnance disposal (EOD) personnel.  To 
be eligible for advancement to E8 and E9, Sailors must hold the master EOD 
technician NEC (5337) prior to the regularly scheduled board convening date.

7.  The competitive groups for selected communities are as follows:
    a.  Naval Aircrewmen (AW)
        Group 1 - AWV (NEC) 8228, 8229, 8262, 8263, 8265, 8284,
                            9401, 9402
        Group 2 - AWF (NEC) 8206, 8208, 8209, 8220, 8227, 8235,
                            8241, 8245, 8250, 8251, 8252, 8278,
                            8279, 8289
        Group 3 - AWO (NEC) 7835, 7841, 7846, 7861
        Group 4 - AWS (NEC) 7805, 7807, 7885, 7886
        Group 5 - AWR (NEC) 7873, 7876, 7875 (7835 - SELRES Only)
    b.  Electrician's Mate (EM)
        Group 1 - Nuclear (Submarine)
        Group 2 - Nuclear (Surface)
        Group 3 - All Others
    c.  Electronics Technician (ET)
        Group 1 - Submarine (Non-Nuclear NAV)
        Group 2 - Submarine (Non-Nuclear COM)
        Group 3 - Submarine (Nuclear)
        Group 4 - Surface (Nuclear)
        Group 5 - Surface (Others)
    d.  Fire Controlman (FC)
        Group 1 - All Others
        Group 2 - AEGIS
    e.  Machinist's Mate (MM)
        Group 1 - Submarine (Non-Nuclear AUX)
        Group 2 - Submarine (Non-Nuclear WEPS)
        Group 3 - Nuclear (Submarine)
        Group 4 - Nuclear (Surface)
        Group 5 - All Others
    f.  Cryptologic Technician (Interpretive)
        Group 1 * Middle East and North Africa
        Group 2 * East and Far East Asia
        Group 3 * Latin and South America
        Group 4 * Eastern Europe
    g.  Navy Career Counselor (NC)
        Group 1 - Career Recruiter Force
        Group 2 - Fleet
    h.  Culinary Specialist (CS), Logistics Specialist (LS),
        Yeoman (YN)
        Group 1 - Submarine
        Group 2 - All Others
    i.  Musician (MU)
        Group 1 - Special Band
        Group 2 - Fleet Band

8.  Communication with the selection board.  Candidates' LTB, which may be 
mailed or e-mailed (encrypted) to the addresses below, provides candidates 
the opportunity to submit any missing documents from the sections of their 
records that are viewed by the selection boards.  Candidates are encouraged 
to review reference (a), chapter
12 and reference (d), concerning selection board record review and guidance 
for LTB submission.  Further LTB submission guidance is as
follows:
    a.  Information received that is not under the candidate*s LTB (third 
party correspondence) or not received by the NPC CSC by the established 
deadline will not be presented to the board.  The time and date LTBs are 
received in the NPC CSC inbox (Central Standard Time (CST)) is the time and 
date used for deadline verification.
    b.  Candidates must verify that the correct board number (see below) is 
on their LTB to ensure it appears before the proper board.
    c.  Full name and full SSN must be affixed and legible on all documents 
submitted.
    d.  Selection board mailing addresses.  Use of special handling mail 
(certified or registered) is not advised due to significant delays in 
handling.
        (1) SELRES/Mobilized IRR E8/9 Board:
            Navy Personnel Command Customer Service Center
            President FY-16 Reserve Enlisted Selection Board #205
            5720 Integrity Drive
            Millington, TN 38055-6300
        (2) FTS E8/9 board:
            Navy Personnel Command Customer Service Center
            President FY-16 Reserve Enlisted Selection Board #206
            5720 Integrity Drive
            Millington, TN 38055-6300
        (3) Active E9 board:
            Navy Personnel Command Customer Service Center
            President FY-16 Active Enlisted Selection Board #210
            5720 Integrity Drive
            Millington, TN 38055-6300
        (4) Active E8 board:
            Navy Personnel Command Customer Service Center
            President FY-16 Active Enlisted Selection Board #235
            5720 Integrity Drive
            Millington, TN 38055-6300
    e.  E-mail address for submitting a LTB is cscselboard(at)navy.mil.  E-
mailed LTBs must be encrypted to protect personally identifiable information 
(PII).  Trouble with file encryption or certificate issues does not justify a 
late LTB.
If the candidate is unable to send the e-mail encrypted to 
cscselboard(at)navy.mil, candidates may utilize the Safe Access File Exchange 
(SAFE) website at https://safe.amrdec.army.mil/safe/
to transmit their LTB to cscselboard(at)navy.mil.
    f.  Candidates are authorized to submit more than one LTB, vice waiting 
until the deadline to submit one all-inclusive LTB.  LTBs forwarded for 
consideration by the selection boards will not be added to the candidate*s 
OMPF, except for award citations accurately reflected in the Navy Department 
Awards Services (NDAWS) website, per reference (e).

9.  Additional information regarding this cycle will be posted at 
http://www.public.navy.mil/bupers-npc/boards/reserveenlisted/pages/
scpomcposelectionboards.aspx, http://www.public.navy.mil/bupers-
npc/boards/activedutyenlisted/pages/scposelectionboards.aspx, or 
http://www.public.navy.mil/bupers-npc/boards/activedutyenlisted/
pages/mcposelectionboards.aspx.  Record review and correspondence submission 
guidance is provided at http://www.public.navy.mil/ bupers-
npc/boards/activedutyenlisted/pages/generalinformation.aspx.

10.  Official results will be announced via NAVADMIN message.

11.  For additional information, contact the NPC CSC at 1-866-U-ASK-NPC (1-
866-827-5672) or via e-mail at cscmailbox(at)navy.mil.

12.  This message will remain in effect until superseded or canceled, 
whichever comes first.
13  Released by Vice Admiral W. F. Moran, N1.//

BT
#2740
NNNN

