UNCLASSIFIED
ROUTINE
R 201328Z SEP 17
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC
BT
UNCLAS
PASS TO OFFICE CODES:
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//

NAVADMIN 231/17

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/SEP//

SUBJ/UPDATE TO THE CAREER MANAGEMENT SYSTEM-INTERACTIVE DETAILING PROCESS AND 
CAREER WAYPOINTS-REENLISTMENT TIMELINES (CORRECTED COPY)//

REF/A/MSG/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/261710ZJUL12//
REF/B/MSG/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/261738ZJUL12//
REF/C/MSG/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/141332ZMAR14//
REF/D/DOC/COMNAVPERSCOM/30AUG2011//
REF/E/DOC/COMNAVPERSCOM/16MAY2016//
NARR/REF A IS NAVADMIN 226/12, CHANGES IN ENLISTED DISTRIBUTION TO IMPROVE 
SEA DUTY MANNING.  REF B IS NAVADMIN 227/12, LIMITED DIRECTED DETAILING FOR 
ENLISTED SAILORS.  REF C IS NAVADMIN 058/14, INCREASED ENLISTED PERSONNEL 
DISTRIBUTION AUTHORITY.  REF D IS MILPERSMAN 1306-124, TOUR EXTENSION AND 
SPLIT TOURS.  REF E IS MILPERSMAN 1160-140, CAREER WAYPOINTS-REENLISTMENT.//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN cancels references (a) through (c) and announces two 
fundamental changes in the Career Management System-Interactive Detailing 
(CMS-ID) timeline.  The order negotiation window will start 12 months before 
projected rotation date (PRD), vice 9, so Sailors can begin negotiating 
orders sooner, and the application cycle will be every 2-months, vice 
monthly.  This will increase the number of advertised jobs each Sailor may 
apply for during a given cycle.  To support this new timeline, Career 
Waypoints-Reenlistment (C-WAY-REEN) applications will start 16 months before 
PRD.  This correction clarifies the CMS-ID negotiation cycle timing in 
paragraph 3.

2.  The Manning Control Authorities (MCA) identify jobs to advertise/fill in 
order to optimize Fleet manning.  These are the only jobs available for 
detailing, and they are must fills in order to support operational readiness.  
Detailers will attempt to find a match using the desired selections of the 
Sailor first.  However, Fleet readiness will ultimately be the guiding factor 
and detailers may have to select Sailors who have not applied for an 
assignment or are early in their orders negotiation window, if they are the 
best fit.  In order to maximize opportunity to find win-win assignments, 
changes to the CMS-ID orders negotiation window and cycle will:
    a.  Increase the number of advertised jobs Sailors can apply for, 
providing Sailors with greater choice and variety.
    b.  Provide greater time for Sailors and their families to prepare for 
PCS transfer.
    c.  Increase the number of Sailors applying for jobs, including personnel 
in special distribution categories, such as dual military couples and Sailors 
with exceptional family members, to ensure equitable distribution and career 
management opportunities for all Sailors.
    d.  Enhance enlisted assignments by giving detailers more time to match 
the skill sets of the Sailor with job requirements to fill the jobs that are 
advertised.

3.  Implementation timeline.  The 2-month CMS-ID cycle will begin in October 
2017 and personnel with PRDs of October 2017 through June 2018 will be in 
their final negotiation cycle.  Personnel with PRDs of July 2018 and August 
2018 will be in the second negotiation cycle, and September 2018 and October 
2018 PRDs will be in the first negotiation cycle.  A new CMS-ID cycle 
calendar for the 2-month cycle is available on the CMS-ID homepage at
https://www.cmsid.navy.mil/.  As a reminder, Sailors entering their CMS-ID 
orders negotiation window should submit five applications for advertised jobs 
to ensure their desires are taken into account. Detailers may write orders 
directing the detachment or transfer of Sailors up to 6 months prior to their 
PRD, or as late as 6 months after their PRD, in order to fill anticipated 
Fleet vacancies on-time, with a fully trained and qualified relief.  Sailors 
can provide input during the negotiation process on CMS-ID via e-mail, or 
phone, to their detailer.  Input via the Command Career Counselor on the 
behalf of the Sailor is also acceptable.  Sailors can request to extend their 
PRD in line with reference (d) by submitting NAVPERS 1306/7 (Enlisted 
Personnel Action Request) via their Commanding Officer to Commander, Navy 
Personnel Command (NPC), Enlisted Career Management Division (PERS-40) 
between 12 to 15 months prior to their PRD.

4.  Beginning October 2017, C-WAY-REEN application processing timelines will 
also be adjusted to better align with the new CMS-ID window.  Soft end of 
active obligated service (SEAOS) and PRD applications will pre-populate at 18 
months vice 15 months.  SEAOS-based reenlistment applications may be 
submitted 16 months prior to SEAOS vice 13 months, and PRD-based applications 
may be submitted 15 months prior to PRD vice 12 months.  Sailors with a SEAOS 
between April 2018 and January 2019 will be reset to ensure four in-rate and 
four conversion applications.  Sailors with a PRD between August 2018 and 
December 2018 will be reset to ensure three PRD applications.  Reference (e) 
will be updated to reflect these changes, and all other policies contained 
therein remain in effect. A new C-WAY calendar is posted on the C-WAY 
homepage at http://www.public.navy.mil/bupers-
npc/career/careercounseling/Pages/C-WAY.aspx.

5.  The continued success in detailing Sailors is contingent upon active 
leadership involvement at all levels, including proactive communication of 
these changes, thorough Career Development Boards, and detailed command 
management of C-WAY-REEN applications and CMS-ID using the Enlisted 
Distribution and Verification Process.

6.  Supplemental guidance is available via the NPC website. Questions 
concerning this NAVADMIN should be referred to the NPC Customer Service 
Center at 1-(866)-U-ASK-NPC/(866)827-5672, or via e-mail at 
cscmailbox(at)navy.mil.

7.  Released by Vice Admiral R. P. Burke, N1.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
