UNCLASSIFIED//

ROUTINE

R 221938Z AUG 14 PSN 536769K36

FM CNO WASHINGTON DC

TO NAVADMIN

BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 196/14

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/DNS/AUG//

SUBJ/EBOLA VIRAL DISEASE RISK AND PRECAUTIONS//

REF/A/DOC/DOD/9OCT2004//

REF/B/DOC/MILPERSMAN/14JUN2007//

REF/C/DOC/DOD/28DEC2009//

REF/D/DOC/MCO/19MAY2009//

REF/E/DOC/DOD/5MAR2010//

REF/F/DOC/ASD/4AUG2014//

NARR/REF A IS DOD DIRECTIVE(DODD) 6200.04, FORCE HEALTH PROTECTION.
REF B
IS MILPERSMAN 1050-250, FOREIGN LEAVE TRAVEL. REF C IS DODD 4500.54E, DOD 
FOREIGN CLEARANCE PROGRAM. REF D IS MARINE CORPS ORDER (MCO) 1050.3J, 
REGULATION FOR LEAVE LIBERTY AND ADMINISTRATIVE ABSENCE. REF E IS DOD 
INSTRUCTION (DODI) 6200.03,PUBLIC HEALTH EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT WITHIN THE 
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE. REF F IS ASSISTANT SECRETARY OF DEFENSE MEMORANDUM FOR 
SECRETARY OF ARMY, NAVY, AIR FORCE.//

RMKS/1. This NAVADMIN is to remind all Commanders that per references
(a) through (d), Sailors and Marines must comply with all DoD travel 
guidance. Western Africa is currently experiencing an Ebola Viral Disease 
(EVD) outbreak in the countries of Guinea, Sierra Leone, Liberia and Nigeria. 
On 29 July 2014, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) upgraded 
travel warning for Guinea, Sierra Leone and Liberia to Level III which means 
to avoid nonessential travel to these areas. On 8 August 2014, the World 
Health Organization (WHO) declared the Ebola outbreak in West Africa a Public 
Health Emergency of International Concern (PHEIC).
While the EVD outbreak does not pose a direct threat to our force, it is 
prudent to safeguard Sailors and Marines by providing the most accurate 
information and ensuring compliance when traveling to areas at risk of any 
infectious disease, including EVD.

2. Commanders will specifically ensure service members traveling to the U.S. 
Africa Command (AFRICOM) AOR, whether on duty or in a leave status, receive 
detailed threat briefs on EVD risks and precautions. Commanders will ensure 
Sailors and Marines are aware of medical threats, preventive measures and 
mitigation strategies, and that each deploying service member understands the 
importance of compliance with appropriate personal protective precautions.

3. EVD symptoms may include fever, rash, headache, joint and muscle aches, 
weakness, diarrhea, vomiting, stomach pain, lack of appetite, and abnormal 
bleeding. Symptoms may appear anywhere from 2 to 21 days after exposure to 
EVD, though 8-10 days is most common.

4. EVD is primarily transmitted through direct contact with the blood or 
bodily fluids of an infected person or through exposure to objects (such as 
needles) that have been contaminated with infected secretions. EVD is not a 
respiratory disease like the flu, and therefore it is not transmitted through 
the air. Those most at risk are family members and health care workers in 
close contact, or treating, an infected person.

5. There is no vaccine currently available. The best way to prevent infection 
is with stringent infection control measures.

6. Areas with reported EVD cases are defined as High Threat Areas.
There is potential for EVD to spread to new areas.
    a. Proper personal protection measures to avoid infection in high threat 
areas include:
        (1) Avoid any contact with persons who appear ill.
        (2) Wash hands frequently.
        (3) Ensure all foods are properly cooked.
        (4) Do not handle any wildlife.
        (5) Seek medical attention at onset of any EVD-like symptoms, 
following travel to a high threat area or contact with a person who has 
visited a high threat area.

7. Areas adjacent to high threat areas but with no reported EVD cases are 
considered Low Threat Areas; however, proper personal protection measures 
should still be taken to avoid all infectious diseases to include EVD.
    a.  Proper personal protection measures to avoid infection in low threat 
areas include:
        (1) Avoid any contact with persons who appear ill and have recently 
visited a high threat area.
        (2) Wash hands frequently.
        (3) Seek medical attention at the onset of any EVD-like symptoms, 
following contact with a person who has visited a high threat area.

8. All suspected, probable, or confirmed EVD cases must be reported 
immediately using the notification routing procedures prescribed by reference 
(e). Include the organizations listed in the Reportable Medical Events 
section of reference (f) as information addressees on the report.

9. As of the date of this message, no confirmed Ebola cases have been 
reported in the United States

10. Additional real-time information can be located at:
HTTP://TRAVEL.STATE.GOV.CONTENT/PASSPORTS/ENGLISH/ALERTWARNINGS.HTML
and at HTTP://WWW.CDC.GOV.//

11. Released by Vice Admiral S.H. Swift, Director, Navy Staff.//

BT
#8190
NNNN

