UNCLASSIFIED
ROUTINE
R 152143Z FEB 18
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC
BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 255/17

PASS TO OFFICE CODES:
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//
MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/FEB//

SUBJ/FY-19 NAVY ACTIVE DUTY AND RESERVE ENLISTED ADVANCEMENT SELECTION BOARDS 
FOR MASTER CHIEF AND SENIOR CHIEF PETTY OFFICER FEBRUARY 2018 (CORRECTED 
COPY)//

REF/A/MSG/CNO WASHINGTON DC/131828ZJUL17//
REF/B/DOC/BUPERS/2NOV07//
REF/C/DOC/OPNAV/15NOV16//
REF/D/MSG/SECNAV WASHINGTON DC/052044ZMAR13//
REF/E/DOC/BUMED/8MAR17//
REF/F/DOC/COMNAVPERSCOM/13MAY13//
REF/G/MSG/CNO WASHINGTON DC/192102ZNOV14//
REF/H/MSG/CNO WASHINGTON DC/011557ZFEB17//
REF/I/DOC/BUPERS/1MAY15//
NARR/REF A IS NAVADMIN 174/17, REVISED NAVY ENLISTED CLASSIFICATION CODE 
CONSTRUCT.  
REF B IS BUPERSINST 1430.16F, ADVANCEMENT MANUAL FOR ENLISTED PERSONNEL OF 
THE U.S. NAVY AND U.S. NAVY RESERVE.  
REF C IS OPNAVINST 1220.1E, CHANGING OR REMOVING NAVY ENLISTED CLASSIFICATION 
CODES FOR NUCLEAR PROPULSION PLAN PERSONNEL.  
REF D IS ALNAV 015/13, PERSONAL SPECIAL SECURITY INVESTIGATION SUBMISSION 
REQUIREMENTS.  
REF E IS MANUAL OF THE MEDICAL DEPARTMENT (MANMED), NAVMED P-117.  
REF F IS MILPERSMAN 1220-040, SUBMARINE QUALIFICATIONS DESIGNATION FOR 
ENLISTED MEMBERS.  REF G IS NAVADMIN 266/14, UNITED STATES NAVY SENIOR 
ENLISTED ACADEMY.  REF H IS NAVADMIN 021/17, ESTABLISHMENT OF 
YEOMAN(SUBMARINE), LOGISTICS SPECIALIST(SUBMARINE), CULINARY 
SPECIALIST(SUBMARINE) AND FIRE CONTROLMAN(AEGIS) SERVICE RATINGS.  REF I IS 
BUPERSINST 1610.10D, NAVY PERFORMANCE EVALUATION SYSTEM.//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN provides guidance for eligibility, communication to 
the boards, and board member or recorder application procedures for the FY-19 
Navy Active-Duty and Reserve enlisted advancement selection boards for master 
chief and senior chief petty officer.  This correction clarifies eligibility 
requirements in paragraph 3h.
    a.  The Reserve Component (RC) board will consider personnel serving on 
active duty as Full Time Support (FTS) and Selected Reserve (SELRES), to 
include those serving on voluntary and involuntary recall and mobilization 
orders.  Mobilized Individual Ready Reserve (IRR) personnel are considered 
under the SELRES requirements for advancement.
    b.  Navy Enlisted Classifications (NEC) contained in this NAVADMIN list 
both legacy and revised codes per reference (a).
2.  Timeline
    a.  23 October 2017.  Navy Personnel Command (NPC) (PERS-802) will 
compile and submit initial time-in-rate (TIR) eligibility list of candidates 
to Naval Education and Training Professional Development Center (NETPDC) 
(N321).
    b.  10 November 2017.  Examination Status Verification Reports (ESVR) 
will be available at:  https://prod.neas.netc.navy.mil.
    c.  5 February 2018.  RC E8/E9 board candidates changing ratings must be 
in the new rating to be considered as a candidate in that rating.
    d.  12 February 2018.  Letter to the board (LTB) deadline for the RC E8/9 
selection board.
    e.  2 March 2018.  Active Component (AC) E9 board candidates changing 
ratings must be in the new rating to be considered as a candidate in that 
rating.
    f.  5 March 2018.  RC E8/E9 selection board convenes.  All eligibility 
requirements, to include any waivers, must have final approval and be posted 
to candidates records prior to this date.
    g.  12 March 2018.  LTB deadline for the AC E9 selection board.
    h.  16 March 2018.  RC E8/E9 selection board scheduled to adjourn.
    i.  23 March 2018.  AC E8 board candidates changing ratings must be in 
the new rating to be considered as a candidate in that rating.
    j.  2 April 2018.  AC E9 selection board convenes.  All eligibility 
requirements, to include any waivers, must have final approval and be posted 
to candidates records prior to this date.
    k.  2 April 2018.  LTB deadline for the AC E8 selection board.
    l.  13 April 2018.  AC E9 selection board scheduled to adjourn.
    m.  23 April 2018.  AC E8 selection board convenes.  All eligibility 
requirements, to include any waivers, must have final approval and be posted 
to candidates records prior to this date.
    n.  11 May 2018.  AC E8 selection board scheduled to adjourn.

3.  Eligibility Criteria.  Candidates must meet the eligibility requirements 
outlined in chapter 2 of reference (b) and this NAVADMIN prior to the 
scheduled board convening date.  All requirements must be reflected in the 
enlisted master file prior to the board convening.  Requirements achieved or 
posted to a candidates record after the scheduled board convening date will 
be considered late and not make a candidate eligible for the regularly 
scheduled board or entitle a candidate to an enlisted special selection 
board.  The authoritative source to determine selection board eligibility is 
the profile sheet.  The AC/FTS/SELRES cycle is 237.  Because eligibility 
status can change without direct notification, candidates should verify their 
profile sheet on a continuous basis and commands must verify their ESVR 
weekly through the projected board adjourn date.  The profile sheet and ESVR 
are updated as changes are processed by NPC PERS-802.
    a.  The candidate shares equal responsibility with the parent command to 
ensure:
        (1) The candidates name appears on the selection board eligibility 
list.
        (2) The candidate is listed in the correct competitive group.
        (3) The candidates Official Military Personnel File (OMPF) field 
codes 30-38 and Performance Summary Record (PSR) are up-to-date.
    b.  If an eligible candidate is not listed on the selection board 
eligibility list, mail or e-mail a completed Advancement in Rate or Change in 
Rating worksheet (NETPDC 1430/3 Rev 06-16) along with a letter of transmittal 
to NETPDC (N321) and info NPC PERS-802.
    c.  If listed candidates are ineligible or later become ineligible, 
submit a message to NETPDC (N321) and NPC PERS-802 requesting the candidates 
eligibility be invalidated and provide explanation for invalidation.  Per 
reference (b) paragraph 721b, advancement recommendation withdrawal must be 
completed and documented prior to transmitting the message.
    d.  If candidates are validated in the wrong competitive category, submit 
a message notification to NETPDC (N321) and NPC PERS-802 detailing the 
discrepancy.
    e.  Sailors not selected to continue from a Senior Enlisted Continuation 
Board are ineligible for advancement.
    f.  Candidates who do not have a recommendation for advancement on their 
most recent chief evaluation will be invalidated. Evaluations that restore a 
recommendation for advancement must be made available to the selection board 
prior to the board convening date.
    g.  Per reference (b), the terminal eligibility date used to
 compute the TIR is 1 October 2018.  TIR date for E8 candidates must be on or 
before 1 September 2015.  TIR date for E9 candidates must be on or before 1 
July 2015.
    h.  High Year Tenure (HYT) date or approved HYT waiver for the current 
paygrade must be 1 July 2018 or later.  HYT waivers must be approved prior to 
the board convening.  Candidates who will be at HYT for the next higher 
paygrade on 1 July 2018 are ineligible for advancement, regardless of any 
approved HYT waiver.
    i.  Members who have submitted voluntary Fleet Reserve (FLTRES)/ 
retirement requests to NPC are not eligible.  Voluntary FLTRES are those not 
mandated by HYT.  Requests due to HYT are eligible for advancement and 
selection board consideration provided the HYT date for the present paygrade 
is 1 July 2018 or later per reference (b). An approved or pending voluntary 
FLTRES/retirement request must be successfully disapproved, canceled, or 
modified to an involuntary date prior to the board convening to render a 
candidate selection board eligible.
    j.  Commissioning Programs.  Candidates who have been selected for Seaman 
To Admiral (STA-21), Medical Enlisted Commissioning Program, Medical Service 
Corps in-service procurement, or Judge Advocate General Corps in-service 
procurement programs remain eligible for advancement consideration.  
Selection to any other officer commissioning program renders candidates 
ineligible. Commands are required to request those candidates be invalidated 
by NPC PERS-802.
    k.  Per reference (c), nuclear candidates who are assigned NEC 3359/3389 
upon transfer from a nuclear propulsion plant operator to a non-nuclear 
billet at sea or ashore, or to duty under instruction including special 
college education programs are ineligible for advancement.  This includes 
nuclear candidates transferred to a STA-21 duty station.
    l.  Security clearance requirements.  Candidates in a rating requiring a 
security clearance must have a favorable investigation adjudication issued by 
the Department of Defense Central Adjudication Facility and it must be 
reflected properly in Joint Personnel Adjudication System (JPAS) prior to 
board convening. If the candidate's commanding officer (CO) grants an interim 
clearance, JPAS must be updated prior to the board convening.  Refer to 
reference (d) for additional guidance.  Sailors who have a clearance
must maintain that clearance eligibility.  Ratings requiring a security 
clearance are AC, AE, AG, AO, AT, AW, AWF, AWO, AWR, AWS, AWV, AZ, CTI, CTM, 
CTN, CTR, CTT, EOD, ET, FC, FCA, FT, GM, HT, IC, IS, IT, LN, MA, MC, MN, MT, 
ND, OS, QM, SB, SO, STG, and YN, as well as all nuclear and submarine 
ratings.  This guidance supersedes reference (b).
    m.  Branch class (BRCL) and special program indicator (SPI) code.  SPI 
for BRCL 32 Sailors must be verified via the Billet Based Distribution 
system.  BRCL 32 on active duty orders with a blank SPI code is invalid.  
Commands must correct the error via the Navy Standard Integrated Personnel 
System (NSIPS) or the Sailor may seek relief by petitioning the Board for 
Correction of Naval Records (BCNR).  Sailors whose SPI code is invalid as of 
the board convening date will be invalidated.
    n.  Competitive group specific eligibility requirements. Candidates must 
meet special requirements (citizenship, medical, etc.) for certain ratings as 
outlined in paragraph 204 of reference (b).  Commands must verify and submit 
a message to NETPDC (N321) and NPC PERS-802 requesting those selection board 
eligible Sailors be invalidated who no longer meet the qualifications listed 
in reference (b) or below by the scheduled board convening date.
        (1) Air Traffic Controller personnel must possess a valid Federal 
Aviation Administration 7220-1 ATCS Certificate and meet requirements 
established in reference (e).
        (2) Cryptologic Technician Interpretive (CTI) personnel must achieve 
a minimum of L2/R2 on the most recent Defense Language Proficiency Test 
(DLPT) in their primary language, as assigned by their CO, within 12 months 
of LTB deadline for E8/9 selection boards.  However, a CTI who achieves a 
maximum of L3/R3 on the most recent DLPT in his/her primary language, as 
assigned by his/her CO, within 24 months of LTB deadline for E8/E9 selection 
boards will be eligible for advancement.  Acceptable documentation of DLPT 
scores includes an evaluation with language scores or the official Navy DLPT 
letter from Center of Information Warfare Training, Corry Station, forwarded 
to the board via the candidate's LTB.  Any CTI whose primary language DLPT 
has expired must possess a valid "Inability to Test" waiver from the Navy 
Language, Regional Expertise, and Culture Office (OPNAV N13F) in order to be 
considered by the board.
        (3) Explosive Ordnance Disposal (EOD) personnel must hold the Master 
EOD technician NEC (5337) to be eligible for advancement to E8 and E9.
        (4) Active duty Navy Diver (ND) personnel must hold the First Class 
Diver NEC (5342/M1DV) for group 2 or the Master Diver NEC (5341/MMDV) for 
group 1 to be eligible for advancement to E8 and must hold the Master Diver 
NEC (5341/MMDV) to be eligible for advancement to E9.
        (5) Special Warfare Boat Operators personnel must have the Patrol 
Officer (SWCC Master) qualification to be eligible for advancement to E8 and 
E9.
        (6) Nuclear trained personnel.
            (a) Submarine Sailors in nuclear ratings must hold a supervisor 
NEC (3363, 3364, 3365, or 3366) and the nuclear qualified secondary NEC 3302 
(Engineering Department Master Chief (EDMC)) to be eligible for advancement 
to E8.  A NAVPERS 1221/6 requesting a secondary NEC of 3302 and copy of 
qualification card must be submitted to OPNAV N133 at bullnuke(at)navy.mil 
via the Force EDMC by 13 April 2018.  Additional contact information is 
available via http://www.public.navy.mil/bupers-
npc/enlisted/community/nuclear/Pages/NuclearEnlistedPrograms.aspx
            (b) Surface Sailors in nuclear ratings must hold a supervisor NEC 
(3393, 3394, 3395, or 3396) to be eligible for advancement to E8.
            (c) Submarine Sailors in nuclear ratings must hold a supervisor 
NEC (3363, 3364, 3365, or 3366) to be eligible for advancement to E9.  
Candidates must also hold the secondary NEC 3302 and have served or be 
currently serving as an EDMC of a submarine. Acceptable documentation of EDMC 
service for review by the selection board includes a chief evaluation with 
"EDMC" in Block 29 or 41, a letter from the CO via the member providing dates 
of EDMC service, or NSIPS documentation via the candidate.  Candidates 
without EDMC service documented in their OMPF must submit documentation with 
their LTB providing dates of EDMC service.
            (d) Surface Sailors in nuclear ratings must hold a supervisor NEC 
(3393, 3394, 3395, or 3396) to be eligible for advancement to E9.  Candidates 
must also hold the secondary NEC 3301 (Reactor Department Master Chief 
(RDMC)) and must have served, or be currently serving as a Division Leading 
Chief Petty Officer (DLCPO) of a nuclear division at sea (Reactor Mechanical, 
Reactor Electrical, Reactor Controls, Reactor Propulsion, or Reactor 
Laboratories), Reactor Training Division Officer (RT DIVO) at sea, or leading 
crew chief (LCC) of a prototype to be eligible for advancement to E9.  
Sailors who are billeted as Reactor Department Master Chief (RDMC) in lieu of 
DLCPO are also eligible for advancement to E9.  Acceptable documentation of 
DLCPO, RT DIVO, LCC, or RDMC service for review by the selection board 
includes a chief evaluation with DLCPO, RT DIVO, LCC, or RDMC in Block 29 or 
41, a letter from the CO via the member to the board providing dates of 
DLCPO, RT DIVO, LCC, or RDMC service, or NSIPS documentation via the member.  
Candidates without DLCPO, RT DIVO, LCC, or RDMC service documented in their 
OMPF must submit documentation with their LTB providing dates of DLCPO, RT 
DIVO, LCC, or RDMC service.
        (7) Non-nuclear submarine Sailors must be designated as either SS, 
SU, or SQ per reference (f) as of the board convening date to be eligible.  
Candidates designated as SG or SP are not eligible for advancement.
    o.  Per reference (g), beginning in FY-17, all newly selected senior 
chiefs are required to complete either the U.S. Navy Senior Enlisted Academy, 
U.S. Air Force Senior Enlisted Academy, U.S. Marine Corps Senior Enlisted 
Academy, U.S. Coast Guard Senior Enlisted Academy, or Joint Special Warfare 
Academy in order to be eligible for advancement to master chief.  The first 
board in which Senior Enlisted Academy completion will be required for 
selection board eligibility are the FY-20 master chief selection boards. 
Senior chiefs should plan accordingly.
    p.  With the establishment of the new Culinary Specialist (Submarine) 
(CSS), Logistics Specialist (Submarine) (LSS), Yeoman (Submarine) (YNS), and 
Fire Controlman (Aegis) (FCA) service ratings, the CS, LS, YN, and FC general 
ratings will no longer be grouped for the Active Duty component.  Refer to 
reference (h) for additional information.

4.  Competitive Groups.  The below listed ratings are separated into
competitive groups as applicable to the candidate's component:
    a.  CTI (Active Duty E8)
        Group 1 - Middle East and North Africa
        Group 2 - East and Far East Asia
        Group 3 - Latin and South America
        Group 4 - Eastern Europe
    b.  EMN, ETN, MMN (Active Duty E8/9)
        Group 1 - Submarine
        Group 2 - Surface
    c.  MU (Active Duty E8/9)
        Group 1 - Premier Band
        Group 2 - Fleet Band
    d.  NC (Active Duty and FTS E8/9)
        Group 1 - Career Recruiter Force
        Group 2 - Fleet
    e.  ND (Active Duty E8)
        Group 1 - Master Diver (5341/MMDV)
        Group 2 - First Class Diver (5342/M1DV)

5.  Record review and communication with the E8/9 selection board.
    a.  Communication to the board must originate from the individual 
candidate and must be accompanied under the candidates signed LTB.
        (1) The LTB may address any information that the candidate considers 
important.  Candidates should not include items in their LTB that are already 
included in their OMPF or PSR unless the OMPF version is unreadable or the 
PSR is incorrect.  An LTB to only state that the candidate's OMPF and PSR 
have been verified and is correct is not desired.  Any evaluation gaps should 
be resolved by either submitting the missing evaluations via an LTB or a 
statement in lieu of missing report per chapter 17 of reference (i).
        (2) The LTB must either be digitally signed using the candidates 
military identity certificate or have a hand-written signature.  Unsigned 
LTBs will not be presented to the board.
        (3) Third party correspondence is any communication to the board 
which is not accompanied by the candidates signed LTB and will not be 
presented to the board.  Commands are not authorized to submit a message to 
NPC requesting information be presented to the board.  This supersedes 
reference (b).
    b.  Information received that is not accompanied by a signed LTB, or not 
received by the NPC Customer Service Center (CSC) by the deadline listed in 
paragraph 2, will not be presented to the board. The time and date LTBs are 
received in the NPC CSC inbox (central time zone) is the time and date used 
for deadline verification.  To verify receipt of an LTB, go to
https://npccontactcenter.ahf.nmci.navy.mil/OA_HTML/npc.html or call the NPC 
CSC.  Although late or unsigned LTBs may be accepted by the NPC CSC, they 
will not be presented to the board and no feedback will be provided to the 
candidate.
    c.  All LTBs and each enclosure must contain the candidates full name and 
full social security number.  Candidates must verify that the correct board 
number is on their signed cover letter.  For FY-19 boards:  The board numbers 
are 205 for SELRES E8/9, 206 for FTS E8/9, 210 for AC E9, and 235 for AC E8.
    d.  The preferred method to submit an LTB is by encrypted e-mail to 
cscselboard(at)navy.mil.  E-mailed LTBs must be encrypted to protect 
personally identifiable information.  Trouble with file encryption or 
certificate issues do not justify a late LTB.
    e.  If unable to e-mail, candidates may send regular mail to the 
addresses below.  Mailed LTBs should be on plain white paper and paper 
clipped (no staples, binders, folders, or tabs).
        (1) SELRES/Mobilized IRR E8/9 Board:
            Navy Personnel Command Customer Service Center (PERS-1)
            President
            FY-19 Reserve E8/9 Selection Board #205
            5720 Integrity Drive
            Millington, TN 38055-6300
        (2) FTS E8/9 Board:
            Navy Personnel Command Customer Service Center (PERS-1)
            President
            FY-19 Reserve E8/9 Selection Board #206
            5720 Integrity Drive
            Millington, TN 38055-6300
        (3) Active E9 Board:
            Navy Personnel Command Customer Service Center (PERS-1)
            President
            FY-19 Active E9 Selection Board #210
            5720 Integrity Drive
            Millington, TN 38055-6300
        (4) Active E8 Board:
            Navy Personnel Command Customer Service Center (PERS-1)
            President
            FY-19 Active E8 Selection Board #235
            5720 Integrity Drive
            Millington, TN 38055-6300
    f.  Certified or registered mail is not advised due to delays in 
handling.
    g.  Candidates are authorized to submit more than one LTB vice waiting 
until the deadline to submit one all-inclusive LTB. Although multiple LTBs 
are authorized, candidates should not duplicate previously sent information.
    h.  The same LTB deadline applies to candidates who gain eligibility 
after the LTB deadline and before the convening date.  A candidate who is 
working to fix an eligibility issue and expects to be selection board 
eligible prior to the board convening date may submit an LTB, which must 
still be received prior to the deadline.

6.  Selection board results.  Official results will be provided online via 
BUPERS Online to authorized command representatives prior to the release of 
the official results via NAVADMIN.  Selectee profile sheets will be published 
by NETPDC within 30 days of both RC and AC selection board results being 
released via NAVADMIN. Educational services officers who are registered users 
may access results through the Navy Enlisted Advancement System (NEAS) 
website (https://prod.neas.netc.navy.mil).  Individual candidates may 
view/download profile sheets via a .mil domain computer at
https://prod.neas.netc.navy.mil/NEASRpts/Individual.aspx.

7.  Special Selection Boards (SSB)
    a.  SSBs may be approved for candidates who have demonstrated they were 
precluded from consideration at the selection board or were considered at the 
selection board in the incorrect competitive category, and the administrative 
error was beyond the candidates control and not the direct or indirect result 
of his or her error, delay, or omission.  SSB requests are to be submitted 
per reference
(b) paragraph 102d to NPC PERS-803 vice PERS-811/812.
    b.  All SSB requests must be received by NPC PERS-803 no later than 2 
years after the date the contested board results were made public.  Requests 
received more than 2 years after the date the contested board results were 
made public will be treated as untimely and will normally be denied by Deputy 
Chief of Naval Personnel.  If a request is delayed more than the 2 years and 
justification can be provided for the delay (i.e., BCNR or Inspector General 
(IG) action), the request will be considered, but it may be denied if the 
reason for the delay is due to submitting the initial BCNR or IG request 
late.

8.  Additional information regarding this cycle will be posted at:
    a.  AC boards:  http://www.public.navy.mil/bupers-
npc/boards/activedutyenlisted/Pages/GeneralInformation.aspx
    b.  RC boards:  http://www.public.navy.mil/bupers-
npc/boards/reserveenlisted/Pages/GeneralInformation.aspx

9.  Board members and recorders.
    a.  AC commanders and senior lieutenant commanders are encouraged to 
contact their detailer if interested in serving as a member on the AC 
selection board.
    b.  FTS commanders and senior lieutenant commanders are encouraged to 
contact their detailer if interested in serving as a member on the RC 
selection board.  SELRES commanders and lieutenant commanders are encouraged 
to contact commander, Navy Reserve Forces Command via their community leaders 
if interested in serving on the RC selection board.
    c.  AC and RC master chiefs are encouraged to apply to serve on the 
selection boards.  There are no restrictions preventing AC members from 
serving on RC selection boards or RC members from serving on AC selection 
boards.
    d.  Senior chief petty officers and chief petty officers (to include 
frocked) who are not eligible for the selection board may serve as recorders.  
Petty officers (E6 and below) may not serve on the boards in any capacity.
    e.  Officers shall complete the Officer Selection Board Member/Recorder 
Nomination form (NAVPERS 1400/5) found at
http://www.public.navy.mil/bupers-npc/reference/forms/NAVPERS/ Pages
/default.aspx
    f.  Enlisted applicants must wait until the Annual Notice of Convening 
message for enlisted advancement selection boards has been released and 
follow the instructions in that message to submit an application.  Selection 
to serve on a board is not based on the order applications are received.  
Early applications will not be accepted.
    g.  Enlisted applicants shall complete the Enlisted Selection Board 
Member/Recorder Application form (NAVPERS 1400/2) found at
http://www.public.navy.mil/bupers-npc/reference/forms/NAVPERS/Pages
/default.aspx and route it through their force master chief (FORCM). 
Personnel stationed at commands that do not fall under a FORCM may have their 
senior enlisted leader (SEL) or command master chief (CMC) forward the 
NAVPERS 1400/2 directly to NPC PERS-805 (Mr. Patrick Marshall):  
donald.p.marshall(at)navy.mil.  Do not use normal administrative routing.  
Only route the application to the SEL/CMC/CO/FORCM and NPC PERS-805.  If the 
applicant is unsure of their circumstance, contact Mr. Marshall via email
donald.p.marshall(at)navy.mil.

10.  Points of contact:
    a.  NPC CSC, 866-U-ASK-NPC/866-827-5672, or e-mail at 
UASKNPC(at)NAVY.MIL.  Do not submit LTBs to this e-mail.
    b.  Selection board eligibility (NPC PERS-802):
        (1) Ms. Linda Coffield (Branch Head), (901) 874-3171, or e-mail at 
linda.coffield(at)navy.mil
        (2) Ms. Elizabeth Vaughn (AC), (901) 874-3217, or e-mail at
elizabeth.vaughn(at)navy.mil
        (3) Ms. Dorothy Harris (FTS/SELRES), (901) 874-4435, or e-mail at 
dorothy.harris(at)navy.mil
    c.  NETPDC (N321), (850) 473-6148/DSN 753, or e-mail at
sfly_N321_discrepanc(at)navy.mil.

11.  This message will remain in effect until superseded or canceled.

12.  Released by Vice Admiral R. P. Burke, N1.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
