UNCLASSIFIED//
ROUTINE
R 131615Z JUL 15
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC
BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 160/15

SUBJ/2014 ADMIRAL STAN ARTHUR AWARDS ANNOUNCEMENT//

REF/A/MSG/CNO WASHINGTON DC/R 181942Z FEB 15//

AMPN/ADMIRAL STAN ARTHUR AWARD CALL FOR 2014 NOMINATIONS MESSAGE.//
POC/LCDR REBECCA GELS/N413M/ARLINGTON, VA/TEL: (703) 695-4861/EMAIL: 
REBECCA.V.GELS(AT)NAVY.MIL//

RMKS/1.  A Flag/SES panel reviewed candidate nominations and selected the 
2014 Admiral Stan Arthur Award winners IAW ref A.  This award recognizes 
military and civilian logisticians who epitomize excellence in logistics 
planning and execution.  I am pleased to announce the 2014 Admiral Stan 
Arthur Award winners:
     A.  2014 Military Logistician of the Year is LCDR Mark Bowmer, Naval 
Reactors (NR) Supply Chain Management (SCM) Directorate (NRSCMD) Operations 
Manager, NAVSUP Weapon Systems Support (NAVSUP WSS).  Addressing NRSCMD 
limitations of analyzing SCM data between disparate NAVSUP and NR business 
systems, LCDR Bowmer developed the Supply Procurement Integrated Data Extract 
Report (SPIDER) tool.  SPIDER provides a new capability to conduct detailed 
multivariable SCM analysis of $75M in procurements, $100M in sales, and 5,500 
contracts, presenting a common operating picture (COP) that cuts across the 
challenges associated with a transitioning generational workforce and the 
related struggle to maximize efficiencies of ERP.  The use of SPIDER 
facilitated a 26% decrease in administrative lead time for high priority 
requirements, innovative contracting solutions such as Blanket Purchase 
Agreements (BPAs) that yielded an 81% decrease in unfilled customer orders, 
and the identification of deficiencies in material drawings affecting 68 
contracts valued at $716K.  Furthermore, SPIDER is being exported for use by 
other NAVSUP WSS directorates.
     B.  2014 Civilian Logician of the Year is Mr. Dwayne Lloyd, Fleet 
Modernization and Installation Division Head and 4.2 Installations Competency 
Lead (SPAWAR).  Mr. Lloyd ensured maximum support to the Fleet by delivering 
the most robust, complex IT systems anywhere in the world.  His leadership 
revitalized the quality assurance process, doubled waterfront installation 
support, and instilled a culture of teamwork among his personnel that led to 
the most technically complete C4ISR network upgrades with the Consolidated 
Afloat Networks and Enterprise Services (CANES) installations in 2014.  
Additionally, Mr. Lloyd implemented a number of innovative approaches to 
maximize Enterprise resources, reducing unplanned requirements growth by 40% 
and driving down costs by nearly 50% from FY13 to FY14.
     C.  2014 Logistics Team of the Year is EUCOM/AFRICOM - CTF 63 Logistics 
Operations Team.  The CTF 63 Logistics Operations Team supported the CNO's 
Maritime Strategy and delivered on all three tenants of the CNO's FY14 
Navigation Plan.  "Warfighting First" was accomplished by coordinating 
logistics support for the deployment of SM-6 missiles and the four MQ-8C 
Firescout deployments.  "Operate Forward" was accomplished by providing 
logistics support for two amphibious platform surge deployments, two Forward 
Deployed Naval Forces - Europe (FDNF-E) units in Rota, Spain, and the maiden 
deployment for USNS SPEARHEAD (JHSV-1).  The tenant of "Be Ready" was 
accomplished through the movement of 1,971 tons of material (to include 668 
CASREP requirements), coordinating 138 explosives movement evolutions 
totaling 1,002 tons of ordnance, and redirecting orders from other theater 
assets to ensure zero gaps in sustainment support for the warfighter.

2.  A virtual awards ceremony, via video teleconference, with ADM Arthur 
(ret), VADM Cullom, and the winning members commands is scheduled for 24 July 
2015.  The OPNAV POC will contact winning commands to make arrangements for 
the ceremony.

3.  My heartiest congratulations to the winners!  Your superlative innovative 
solutions resulted in quantifiable benefits to the United States Navy and 
enhanced the logistics profession.  BRAVO ZULU!

4.  Released by VADM P. H. Cullom, OPNAV N4.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
