UNCLASSIFIED//

ROUTINE

R 061834Z AUG 19

FM CNO WASHINGTON DC

TO NAVADMIN

INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC

BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 183/19

PASS TO OFFICE CODES:
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/AUG//

SUBJ/PERMANENT CHANGE OF STATION MOVE IMPROVEMENTS - PHASE TWO//

REF/A/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/171240ZJUL19//

REF/B/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/061749ZAUG19//

NARR/REF A IS NAVADMIN 161/19  PERMANENT CHANGE OF STATION MOVE IMPROVEMENTS.  
REF B IS NAVADMIN 184/19 - GOVERNMENT TRAVEL CHARGE CARD USE DURING PERMANENT 
CHANGE OF STATION TRAVEL.//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN announces the rollout of two new Permanent Change of 
Station (PCS) planning and execution capabilities designed to improve and 
simplify the PCS process - Lean Orders and the PCS Entitlements Calculator.  
Reference (a) announced plans to improve the PCS experience for Sailors and 
their families.  Included in the initial phase was the launch of MyPCS 
Mobile, which provides Sailors a personalized PCS checklist on a mobile-
enabled website accessible on personal and work mobile devices, tablets, 
laptops and desktops.
Reference (b) announced the beginning of phase two of the PCS move 
improvements initiative with a pilot program for the optional use of the 
government travel charge card during PCS travel.

2.  Lean Orders.  Lean orders are a streamlined, simplified and plain 
language orders format that provides Sailors and their families the essential 
information required to execute a PCS move, all conveniently available on a 
mobile device via MyPCS Mobile and on a desktop via MyNavy Portal (MNP).  
Lean orders are only available for viewing by active-duty Sailors in receipt 
of PCS orders.  Full-text legacy formatted orders will also be available on 
the MyPCS Mobile and on MNP.  Both lean and legacy orders must be read in 
their entirety.  An example and tutorial of lean orders is available for 
viewing via MyPCS Mobile through the Navy App Locker at 
https://www.applocker.navy.mil or via MNP at 
https://www.mnp.navy.mil/group/assignment-leave-travel/mypcs.

3.  PCS Entitlements Calculator.  The PCS Entitlements Calculator is a tool 
available to assist Sailors and their supporting Command Pay and Personnel 
Administrators (CPPA) to calculate PCS travel entitlements for planning 
purposes.  All are encouraged to check applicable references when computing 
estimated travel entitlements and to be mindful that travel rules and 
entitlements are subject to change.  This tool will also prove helpful to 
Sailors when they fill out their travel claim at their new permanent duty 
station to ensure the claim disbursement is the correct amount.  The PCS 
Entitlement Calculator is available at 
https://www.mnp.navy.mil/group/assignment-leave-travel/mypcs.

4.  Phase three of the PCS move improvement series introduces an automated 
travel claim capability in MyPCS Mobile scheduled for early September.  
Sailors will be able to complete a fully electronic travel voucher on their 
personal mobile device.  They will be able to upload receipts, complete a 
voucher that has been prepopulated with basic information, electronically 
sign and provide to their CPPA for final processing.

5.  All are encouraged to review these new features in MyPCS Mobile or MNP 
even if not presently executing a PCS move.

6.  Contact MyNavy Career Center for any issues or to provide feedback at 
833-330-MNCC/6622 or via e-mail at askMNCC(at)navy.mil.

7.  All Sailors and families are encouraged to download the MyNavy Family 
application to find authoritive information to assist in navigating military 
life.  The application can be found in the Navy application locker at 
https://www.applocker.navy.mil.

8.  Released by Vice Admiral John B. Nowell, Jr, N1.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//

