UNCLASSIFIED
ROUTINE
R 251849Z APR 17
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC
BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 101/17

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N8/APR

SUBJ/2017 SECDEF MAINTENANCE INNOVATION CHALLENGE - CALL FOR ABSTRACTS
POC/DAN SCHRADER/CIV/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N83I1/TEL: 703-695-4925/
E-MAIL: DANIEL.L.SCHRADER(AT)NAVY.MIL

RMKS/1.  The Secretary of Defense is sponsoring the 2017 Maintenance 
Innovation Challenge (MIC), with call for nominations across the Department 
of Defense.  The MIC is a hallmark event designed to elicit and share 
innovative maintenance capabilities beyond technology to include unique 
partnerships, resourcing strategies, business practices, or other 
transformative capabilities that will make maintenance more agile, effective, 
and affordable.  I am challenging individuals and organizations within our 
Navy maintenance community to participate in this competition at the SECDEF 
level.

2.  Abstracts for the 2017 Maintenance Innovation Challenge must be submitted 
to the Joint Technology Exchange Group (JTEG) for consideration NLT 15 
September 2017.  Abstracts must meet the following criteria for 
consideration:
    a.  Must be an original contribution to the state of the art.
    b.  Must be technically accurate  focused on current or potential
    maintenance operations or management, and strictly avoid
    commercialism.
    c.  Must be feasible or practical.
    d.  Must be submitted in Word format using the template provided
    (abstract 300-500 words only)
    e.  Must include a PowerPoint Quad Chart (quad chart template and
    specific details will be posted in website provided below).
    f.  Must be new entry.  Entries from previous years will not be
    accepted.
    g.  Must be cleared for public release.

3.  All abstracts that meet the minimum criteria listed above will be 
published in the annual Maintenance Innovation Challenge Compendium which 
will be distributed to all symposium attendees.  From eligible abstracts, the 
JTEG Evaluation Board will review submissions based upon maintenance 
centricity, originality of the idea, avoidance of commercialism, technical 
maturity, cross-service applicability, potential to benefit maintenance, 
feasibility, and practicality.  The Evaluation Board will select six 
finalists who will be given the opportunity to present their new 
technologies, processes, or business practices to an audience at the 2017
Department of Defense Maintenance Symposium in Salt Lake City, UT on 4 
December 2017.  From the six finalists, senior DoD sustainment leaders from 
the Maintenance Executive Steering Committee will select a winner of the 
competition to be recognized during the Symposiums plenary session on 5 
December 2017.  Additionally, the Symposium audience will have the 
opportunity to select the 2017 MIC People’s Choice Award winner from the six 
finalists.

4.  Specific format criteria for proposed abstract and Powerpoint Quad 
template may be found at http://www.sae.org/dod.  The Office of Assistant 
Secretary of Defense Maintenance, Policy, and Programs (OASD(MP&P)) is the 
responsible organization for this program.  Additional questions related to 
nomination packages may be addressed to Mr. Greg Kilchenstein at OASD(MP&P), 
703-614-0862, gregory.j.kilchenstein.civ(at)mail.mil.

5.  This NAVADMIN will remain in effect until superseded or canceled.

6.  Released by VADM W. K. Lescher, N8.

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
