UNCLASSIFIED
ROUTINE
R 271808Z APR 16
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC
BT
UNCLAS
PASS TO OFFICE CODES:
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//

NAVADMIN 094/16

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/APR//

SUBJ/FY-17 JUDGE ADVOCATE GENERAL'S CORPS IN-SERVICE PROCUREMENT PROGRAM 
SELECTION BOARD//

REF/A/DOC/JAG/30APR13//
AMPN/REF A IS JUDGE ADVOCATE GENERAL'S CORPS IN-SERVICE PROCUREMENT
PROGRAM AUTHORIZATION 111A//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN announces the convening of the FY-17 Judge Advocate 
Generals Corps (JAGC) In-Service Procurement Program (IPP) Selection Board no 
earlier than February 2017.  The JAGC IPP provides outstanding, career-
motivated enlisted personnel of all ratings, who meet the eligibility 
criteria, the opportunity to earn a commission in the JAGC.  The FY-17 board 
will accept applications for the funded legal education option and the direct 
commission option (DCO).

2.  This program is open to active-duty enlisted Sailors and Navy full-time 
support personnel in any rating or military occupational specialty in 
paygrades E-5 through E-7 at the time of the application. Applicants must 
have served on active-duty for a period of no less than 2 years and no more 
than 10 years at the time the applications are due.  Members of the 
individual ready reserve or serving on active-duty for special work, active 
duty for training, or one-to-three year recalls are not eligible for this 
program.

3.  Reference (a) provides information on authorized program benefits, 
eligibility, obligated service, and program requirements.  Where information 
differs between this NAVADMIN and reference (a), this NAVADMIN takes 
precedence.  The requirement in reference (a) for funded legal education 
option applicants to submit at least one law school acceptance letter is 
replaced by the requirements in paragraph 6c below.  No other waivers will be 
granted.

4.  Application procedures are provided in reference (a) and this NAVADMIN.  
Further program information can be found at
http://www.jag.navy.mil/careers_/careers/opportunities_ipp.html.

5.  Applicants must not have reached their 42nd birthday by the time of 
initial appointment.  This requirement will not be waived.

6.  Amplifying education information for the FY-17 board.
    a.  Law School Admission Test (LSAT) exam scores are required for all 
applicants.
    b.  All applicants must hold a baccalaureate degree from an accredited 
institution.  Applicants must submit their official transcripts for all 
degrees earned and a complete list of all schools attended.
    c.  Applicants applying to the funded legal education option must provide 
a prioritized list of U.S. law schools accredited by the American Bar 
Association (ABA) to which the applicant has applied.  Applicants are 
encouraged to apply to more than one school.  Applicants must apply to at 
least one law school in which in-state tuition and fees can be obtained and 
one law school near the applicants current duty station. Navy applicants must 
also apply to one school located in a fleet concentration area (i.e. Norfolk, 
VA; Jacksonville/Mayport, FL; San Diego, CA; Pearl Harbor, HI; or Washington, 
DC).  NOTE:  Due to current Navy contracting limitations, before applying to 
any law school, applicants must first verify that the school accepts payment 
with Visa credit cards from third parties and that the total cost per 
semester or quarter does not exceed $22,000.00.  Applicants must provide a 
copy of any acceptance letters received prior to the convening of the 
selection board.
    d.  Applicants applying for the DCO must have obtained a law degree 
(juris doctor) from a law school considered by the ABA to be accredited under 
provisions established by the ABA at the time of their graduation from the 
law school.
    e.  Applicants for the DCO must submit a letter or certificate of good 
standing from the licensing authority admitting the applicant to the practice 
of law before a federal court or the highest court of a state, a U.S. 
territory, the commonwealth of Puerto Rico, or the District of Columbia.
    f.  Applicants assigned to a nuclear training command or who hold a 
nuclear Navy enlisted classification (335X, 336X, 338X, 339X) and are 
applying for the FY-17 JAGC IPP Selection Board must obtain conditional 
release from nuclear field duty prior to submitting their application for 
consideration for the FY-17 board.  To obtain a conditional release, an 
applicant must submit an Enlisted Personnel Action Request (NAVPERS 1306/7) 
to Nuclear Propulsion Program Management Branch (N133) via their detailer, 
Enlisted Nuclear/Submarine Assignments (PERS-403).  The FY-17 JAGC IPP 
Selection Board will only consider nuclear enlisted candidates who have 
conditional release included in their JAGC IPP application.
    g.  For applicants not assigned to nuclear programs listed in paragraph 
6f:  Applicants under obligated training require conditional release from 
their enlisted community manager (ECM).  To obtain a conditional release, an 
applicant must submit NAVPERS 1306/7 to their ECM.  The FY-17 JAGC IPP 
selection board will only consider enlisted candidates who have a conditional 
release included in their program application.

7.  Applications must be postmarked no later than 2 December 2016 and mailed, 
via applicant's current commanding officer, to:
       Commander, Navy Personnel Command
       PERS-4416E, JAGC Accessions Office
       5720 Integrity Drive
       Millington, TN  38055-4416
Additional or amplifying documents including LSAT scores may be submitted by 
the applicant using the address listed in this message and must be post 
marked no later than 13 January 2017.  Incomplete applications will not be 
reviewed by the board.

8.  Per reference (a), prior to submitting a completed application, 
applicants are required to complete a structured interview with the JAGC. 
Structured interviews will be conducted in accordance with policy established 
by the Judge Advocate General.  Instructions for scheduling a structured 
interview may be found at 
http://www.jag.navy.mil/careers_/careers/opportunities_ipp.html.  This 
requirement is separate from and, in addition to, the command interview.

9.  Point of contact is the Navy JAGC Accessions Office (PERS-4416E) and can 
be reached at (901) 874-4084/4087/DSN 882 or via e-mail at 
navyaccessions(at)navy.mil.

10.  This message is canceled for record purposes on 30 September 2017.

11.  Released by Vice Admiral W. F. Moran, N1.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
