UNCLASSIFIED
ROUTINE
R 242121Z AUG 16
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 187/16

SUBJ/CORRECTED COPY GUIDANCE FOR SEPARATION HISTORY AND PHYSICAL EXAMINATION
(SHPE) FOR DEPARTMENT OF NAVY (DON) ACTIVE/RESERVE COMPONENT SERVICE 
MEMBERS//

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC//DNS/APR// GUIDANCE FOR SEPARATION HISTORY 
AND PHYSICAL EXAMINATION (SHPE)//

REF/A/DOC/DOD/ DOD INSTRUCTION 6040.46, THE SEPARATION HISTORY AND PHYSICAL
EXAMINATION (SHPE) FOR THE DOD SEPARATION HEALTH ASSESSMENT (SHA) PROGRAM
REF/B/DOC/MANUAL OF THE MEDICAL DEPARTMENT, CHAPTER 15
REF/C/DOC/MANUAL OF THE MEDICAL DEPARTMENT, CHAPTER 16
REF/D/DOC/MANUAL OF THE MEDICAL DEPARTMENT, CHAPTER 18
REF/E/DOC/DEPARTMENT OF THE NAVY (DON) DISABILITY EVALUATION MANUAL
REF/F/DOC/001/15 DON ALNAV GUIDANCE FOR SEPARATION HISTORY AND PHYSICAL
EXAMINATION FOR ALL DEPARTMENT OF NAVY ACTIVE/SELECTED RESERVE SERVICE MEMBER
REF/G/DOC/NAVADMIN 187/14, PROPER TRANSFER OF HEALTH SERVICE TREATMENT
RECORDS (STRS) OF TRANSITIONING SERVICE MEMBERS TO THE VETERANS 
ADMINISTRATION

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN outlines proper guidance for the Separation History 
and Physical Examination (SHPE) program in accordance with references (a) 
through (g).  All Commanders, Commanding Officers, and Officers-In-Charge 
shall ensure compliance with the requirements contained herein regarding SHPE 
responsibilities, procedures, and information collection requirements for all 
Sailors, to include Reserve Component (RC) members.

2.  Background.  It is of paramount importance to ensure that Service Members 
receive an accurate and valid SHPE while having an orderly transition to 
civilian life.  This NAVADMIN serves to provide guidance on SHPE processes, 
for the purpose of applicability, requirements, components, timing, and 
coding of SHPE, as the SHPE is the objective basis for any Department of 
Veterans Affairs (VA) benefits claims made by the Service member after 
separation.

3.  Applicability.  All members of the Navy preparing for release from active 
duty must complete a comprehensive SHPE prior to their scheduled date of 
release.  This also applies to RC members in an active duty status for 180 
days or more, RC members separating after 180 days or more of continuous 
service on active duty orders, or RC members separating with 30 days or more 
of continuous service on active duty orders in support of a Contingency 
Operation.

4.  Meeting the requirements:
   a.  Service Members will not require a SHPE if they are separating or 
retiring after being found unfit for continued military service through the 
disability evaluation process and have completed the examinations in that 
process.
   b.  As stated in reference (a), any examination completed by the following 
means and within the required time period is sufficient:  completion of DD 
Form 2807-1 and DD Form 2808, a termination audiogram completed within the 
previous 6 months on DD Form 2216, laboratory testing, occupational health 
termination examinations, or other examinations performed for any other 
reason that meets the components of the SHPE is sufficient.  The exam must be 
properly documented within the Armed Forces Health Longitudinal Technology 
Application (AHLTA).  If AHLTA is not available, the SHPE is documented on 
paper and filed in the members Service Treatment Record (STR).
   c.  When a medical assessment is used to update a previous medical history 
and physical examination completed on DD Form 2807-1 and DD Form 2808 or 
electronic medical record equivalent, and a condition not previously 
documented is discovered, the credentialed examining provider will evaluate 
the complaint objectively within the scope of a screening physical 
examination.  Any serious, potentially unfitting condition found requires a 
new SHPE to be completed and referral for further evaluation and treatment of 
the new condition, as may be clinically indicated.

5.  Components of SHPE.  Prior to separation, each Service Member must 
receive a SHPE as documented on DD Form 2807-1 and DD Form 2808.  Components 
include:
   a.  DD Form 2807-1, completed by Service Member, with comments on all 
positive responses completed by the credentialed provider performing the 
SHPE.  The provider will document if the Sailor is qualified (or suitable) 
for separation/retirement; or, if the Sailor is unqualified (unsuitable) for 
separation/retirement and referred into the Integrated Disability Evaluation 
System (IDES).  The majority of Sailors who are retiring will be presumed 
fit.
   b.  DD Form 2808, completed by a credentialed provider and a review of 
medical record (hard-copy and electronic) and record of significant medical 
conditions.
   c.  Threshold/termination audiogram with complete audiology evaluation if 
the threshold/termination audiogram indicates a significant threshold shift 
after the second follow-up test.
   d.  Optional Hepatitis C testing per U.S. Centers for Disease Control 
guidelines.
   e.  All occupational health termination examinations required by
   Department of Defense (DOD) policy (e.g., hearing conservation, radiation, 
asbestos medical surveillance), to include any periodic testing required by 
other issuances
(e.g., HIV testing), must be completed before SHPE is conducted.
   f.  All SHPE documentation be uploaded in AHLTA when possible and be 
included with the Service Members STR.
   g.  The examining health care provider must have verified credentials 
deemed appropriate by the Military Treatment Facility (MTF) privileging 
authority to perform such examinations as a physician, physician’s assistant, 
or nurse practitioner.  For exams performed by contracted providers though 
the Reserve Health Readiness Program, the providers credentials must be 
verified according to the terms of the contract.  An Independent Duty 
Corpsman (IDC) does not have the verified credentials deemed appropriate to 
conduct these examinations.

6.  Timing of SHPE:
   a.  A SHPE performed up to 30 days prior to the date of separation from 
active duty requires no further documentation.
   b.  A SHPE performed up to 90 days prior to the date of separation from 
active duty must be validated as current not more than 30 days prior to the 
date of separation.  Validation is an administrative requirement, but it must 
contain a separate entry by a credentialed provider and transcribed into the
STR for tracking purposes.
   c.  A DOD-performed physical examination may be accepted between 90 days 
and up to 12 months prior to the scheduled date of separation if it meets
SHPE minimum standards, but must still be validated by a credentialed 
provider as current not more than 30 days prior to the date of separation.
   d.  A SHPE performed for Service Members at an OCONUS location with a 
servicing MTF must be conducted at the respective OCONUS MTF.  For
Service Members in remote duty CONUS/OCONUS locations that do not have a 
servicing MTF, the SHPE will be conducted at a CONUS fleet concentration area 
servicing MTF prior to separation out-processing.
   e.  When a Service Member has terminal leave, the final out-processing 
date may be used in lieu of date of separation from active duty for timeline 
requirements.
   f.  Per ref (c), the STR is the property of the U.S. Government and must 
be maintained by the medical department which has primary cognizance over the 
care of the patient.  Proper archiving of STRs (medical and dental records) 
is essential for effective processing of Service member Department of 
Veterans Affairs (VA) benefit claims.  Failure to maintain STRs with the 
Sailors and Marines medical/dental department will likely affect or delay 
future benefits upon the members separation/retirement.  All unit Commanders, 
Commanding Officers, and Officers-In-Charge will ensure 100 percent of their 
Service Members have submitted their STR to their supporting medical/dental 
department prior to the Service Members final out-processing date.
   g.  All medical/dental departments shall have positive control of the 
Service Members STR prior to the SHPE being validated as current 30 days or 
less prior to any out-processing date.
   h.  Per ref (g), a reasonable search to locate and retrieve the STR must 
be conducted.  If prior duty stations are unknown, the responsible Navy 
medical and dental records department shall contact NPC Customer Service 
Center (1-866-827-5672/DSN: 882-5672, email: UASKNPC(at)navy.mil).  For any 
medical/dental department that does not have a Service Members STR when 
validating SHPE current 30 days or less prior to any out-processing date, the 
responsible medical/dental department must document its reasonable search 
efforts with NPC Customer Service Center and the Service Member in DD Form 
2963 Block 4, per reference (g).

7.  Coding of SHPE:
   a.  All Medical Departments conducting the SHPE must utilize the ICD-10-CM 
DoD Unique Code Diagnosis DOD0222 "Separation/Termination/Retirement
Examination: Examination performed at the end of employment and for 
retirement or separation" as the documented primary diagnosis.  No other ICD-
10-CM Diagnosis DoD Unique Code is authorized, with the exception of 
operational commands that have not had the technical refresh, or have not yet 
been authorized by higher authority to convert to ICD-10-CM.  In these cases 
commands will use the ICD-9-CM Diagnosis V-Code, V70.5_9, 
Separation/Termination/Retirement Exam:  Examination performed at the end of 
employment and for retirement or separation must be utilized as the 
documented primary diagnosis.  No other ICD-9-CM Diagnosis V-Code is 
authorized for SHPE documentation by these commands that have not converted 
to ICD-10-CM.
   b.  All ICD-10-CM DoD Unique Code Diagnosis DOD0222 coded SHPEs must be
accompanied by Current Procedural Terminology (CPT) procedure code 99420 for
the administrative and review process.  The ICD-10-CM Diagnosis DoD Unique
Code, DOD0222, will not be utilized for any other documentation purposes.

8.  Reporting Requirements:
   a.  Commanders, Commanding Officers and Officers-In-Charge of Military
Treatment Facilities, and Department Heads of Operational Medical 
Departments, shall report the status of each separating/retiring Service 
members SHPE in the Navy’s SHPE tracking system, as it is implemented in 
their command. Commands which do not have organic medical assets will rely on 
the MTF or Branch Health Clinic performing their Service members SHPE.
   b.  Bureau of Medicine and Surgery (BUMED).  On a quarterly basis, shall 
provide the consolidated information to Assistant Secretary of the Navy
(Manpower and Reserve Affairs)(ASN M&RA).
   c.  All commands will advise their qualifying Service Members at least 180
days prior to their separation that they need to complete a SHPE.  This 
advisement will occur on NAVPERS 1070/13 Administrative Remarks.  Attendance 
at the Transition Assistance Program (TAP) and subsequent Transition: GPS 
(Goals, Plans, and Success) modular curriculum is not a substitute for the 
notification process.

9.  Unit Commanders and Officers-In-Charge are directed to take all 
appropriate actions to identify SHPE processing issues well in advance of the 
separation of Service Members and coordinate as necessary with their 
respective chains of command, Bureau of Naval Personnel, and BUMED to ensure 
the requirements of this NAVADMIN are met.
   a.  Command separation check-out sheets shall be modified to reflect the 
requirement to complete a SHPE prior to actual separation/end of active 
obligated service.  The medical department will annotate compliance.
   b.  Temporary duty and terminal leave may be held in abeyance as deemed 
necessary to facilitate completion of SHPE process prior to separation of a 
Service Member.
   C.  Service Members may not be retained on active duty beyond the 
expiration of their active duty service obligation unless specifically 
provided for by applicable law and policy.

10. Released by Vice Admiral R. L. Thomas, Director, Navy Staff//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
