UNCLASSIFIED//

ROUTINE

R 281625Z DEC 18

FM CNO WASHINGTON DC

TO NAVADMIN

INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC

BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 319/18

PASS TO OFFICE CODES:
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/DEC//

SUBJ/POLICY REGARDING CAREER SEA PAY ENTITLEMENT//

REF/A/MSG/CNO WASHINGTON DC/081526ZJUN18//

REF/B/DOC/OPNAV/24DEC05//

REF/C/DOC/SECNAV/14JUN16//

NARR/REF A IS NAVADMIN 143/18, ANNUAL REVIEW OF CAREER SEA PAY ENTITLEMENT 
FOR SHIP-BASED STAFFS AND UNITS.  REF B IS OPNAVINST 7220.14, CAREER SEA PAY 
AND CAREER SEA PAY PREMIUM.  REF C IS SECNAVINST 5030.8C, GENERAL GUIDANCE 
FOR THE CLASSIFICATION OF NAVAL VESSELS AND BATTLE FORCE SHIP COUNTING 
PROCEDURES.//

RMKS/1.  Based on a recent policy review, this NAVADMIN revises reference (a) 
and announces changes to the Career Sea Pay (CSP) policy as established in 
reference (b).  The following revisions have been made and changes will be 
incorporated into the next update of reference (b):
    a.  Yard patrol craft are designated to the special boats and 
expeditionary units subcategory.
    b.  The qualifying nautical miles (nm) from homeport for the CSP daily 
rate for all non-Category A vessels has been reduced from 50 nm to 25 nm.
    c.  Landing craft utility (LCU) are required to be underway, making way 
for at least 4 hours vice 6 hours to qualify for the CSP daily rate.

2.  Only those vessels categorized as a patrol ship, combatant ship or 
auxiliary ship in reference (c) will be eligible for designation as Category 
A or Category B vessels for the purposes of CSP entitlement.

3.  Service Members serving onboard Category A vessels receive continuous 
CSP.  The following vessels are designated Category A:
    AS (SUBMARINE TENDER)
    CG (GUIDED MISSILE CRUISER)
    CVN (AIRCRAFT CARRIER NUCLEAR-POWERED)
    DDG (GUIDED MISSILE DESTROYER)
    EPF (EXPEDITIONARY FAST TRANSPORT)
    HST (HIGH SPEED TRANSPORT)
    LCC (COMMAND SHIP)
    LCS (LITTORAL COMBAT SHIP)
    LHA (AMPHIBIOUS ASSAULT SHIP GENERAL PURPOSE)
    LHD (AMPHIBIOUS ASSAULT SHIP MULTI-PURPOSE)
    LPD (AMPHIBIOUS TRANSPORT DOCK)
    LSD (DOCK LANDING SHIP)
    MCM (MINE COUNTERMEASURES SHIP)
    PC (PATROL COASTAL)
    SSN (SUBMARINE NUCLEAR-POWERED)
    SSBN (BALLISTIC MISSILE SUBMARINE NUCLEAR-POWERED)
    SSGN (GUIDED MISSILE SUBMARINE NUCLEAR-POWERED)
    T-AE (AMMUNITION SHIPS)
    T-AFSB (AFLOAT FORWARD STAGING BASE)
    T-AGOS (SURVEILLANCE SHIP)
    T-AH (HOSPITAL SHIP)
    T-AKE (DRY CARGO/AMMUNITION)
    T-AO (FLEET REPLENISHMENT OILER)
    T-AOE (FAST COMBAT SUPPORT)
    T-ARS (SALVAGE SHIP)
    T-ATF (FLEET OCEAN TUG)
    T-ATS (TOWING/SALVAGE/RESCUSE SHIP)
    T-ESB (EXPEDITIONARY SEA BASE)
    T-ESD (EXPEDITIONARY TRANSFER DOCK)

4.  Designated afloat staffs that are permanently embarked and serving in 
Category A vessels are the only staffs authorized to receive continuous CSP.  
All other afloat staffs receive the daily CSP rate (1/30 of monthly rate) 
only for days in which they are either underway or embarked and serving in a 
Category A vessel.  The following afloat staffs, assigned to vessels of 
forward deployed naval forces and without working spaces ashore, are 
designated Category A:
    COMMANDER, U.S. SEVENTH FLEET (COMSEVENTHFLT)
    COMMANDER, CARRIER STRIKE GROUP 5 (COMCARSTRKGRU FIVE)

5.  Service Members serving onboard Category B vessels are eligible for the 
daily CSP rate (1/30 of monthly rate) when the member is embarked and serving 
in a Category B vessel that is in a port more than 25 miles from the homeport 
of the vessel or when the vessel is underway for 8 hours.  The following 
vessels are designated Category
B:
    IX-21 (USS CONSTITUTION)
    TSV (THEATER SUPPORT VESSEL)

6.  Category B staff designations, listed under paragraph 10 of reference 
(b), are abolished.  All afloat staffs not designated as Category A in 
paragraph 4 shall receive the daily CSP rate only for the days in which they 
are either underway or embarked and serving in a Category A vessel for 8 
continuous hours.

7.  Special Boats and Expeditionary Units
    a.  Service Members assigned to special boats and expeditionary units 
shall be eligible for the daily CSP rate when embarked and serving in the 
following craft:
    MKV/VI PB/CCB (PATROL BOAT)
    RCB (RIVERINE COMMAND BOAT)
    RPB (RIVERINE PATROL BOAT)
    RAB (RIVERINE ASSAULT BOAT)
    34FT PB (PATROL BOAT)
    25FT PB (PATROL BOAT)
    36FT NSW RHIB (NAVAL SPECIAL WARFARE RIGID HULL INFLATABLE BOAT)
    40FT PB (PATROL BOAT)
    CCH (COMBATANT CRAFT HEAVY)
    CCM (COMBATANT CRAFT MEDIUM)
    CCA (COASTAL ASSAULT CRAFT)
    SOCR (SPECIAL OPERATIONS CRAFT RIVERINE)
    MSV (MANUEVER SUPPORT VESSEL)
    NSM (NON-STANDARD MARITIME)
    MV (MERCHANT VESSEL)
    T-AGSE (SUBMARINE AND SPECIAL WARFARE SUPPORT)
    YP (YARD PATROL CRAFT)
    b.  Eligible personnel in this subparagraph are members permanently 
assigned to a special boat team, coastal riverine squadron or expeditionary 
unit whose primary mission is serving in an assigned vessel.  The CSP daily 
rate entitlement exists only when a Service member meets the criteria 
established in subparagraphs (1) or (2) below:
        (1) The vessel is at sea or in a port more than 25 miles from its 
permanent duty station.
        or
        (2) The Service Member is embarked in an eligible craft that is 
underway and making way for at least 6 hours per 1 calendar day.

8.  LCU
    a.  Service Members assigned to LCU units shall be eligible for the daily 
CSP rate when embarked and serving in the craft under the below 
circumstances.
    b.  Eligible personnel in this subparagraph are members permanently 
assigned to a LCU unit whose primary mission is serving in the vessel.  The 
daily CSP rate entitlement exists only when a member meets the criteria 
established below:
        (1) The vessel is at sea or in a port more than 25 miles from its 
permanent duty station and the member is embarked in an eligible craft that 
is underway and making way for at least 4 hours per 1 calendar day.
        or
        (2) The member is onboard and underway with a LPD, LSD, LHA or LHD 
class ship to which the LCU is assigned for deployment or training.

9.  The following policies of reference (b) are emphasized:
    a.  The consecutive sea-duty time counter only advances while the member 
is receiving CSP.
    b.  Only members and staffs permanently assigned to Category A vessels 
may receive continuous CSP for their entire tours.
    c.  Notation of embarkation of the staff in the log of the ship and *flag 
flying* do not replace the requirement of physical presence aboard the ship 
in order to qualify for CSP and CSP counter credit.

10.  To ensure auditability of career sea pay entitlements of the Service 
member, sea duty time and counter must be documented using manual or 
electronic Administrative Remarks (NAVPERS 1070/613) in Navy Standard 
Integrated Personnel System and signed by the commanding officer or designee.  
Copy of signed CSP NAVPERS 1070/613 must be forwarded to Commander, Navy 
Personnel Command
(COMNAVPERSCOM) Records Management and Policy Branch (PERS-313) for permanent 
document retention via e-submission.

11.  Point of Contact in this matter is Military Pay and Compensation (OPNAV 
N130C), at (703) 604-5478/DSN 225 or via e-mail at nxag_n130c(at)navy.mil.

12.  Released by Vice Admiral R. P. Burke, N1.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//

