UNCLASSIFIED//

ROUTINE

R 241622Z SEP 14 PSN 583991H35

FM CNO WASHINGTON DC

TO NAVADMIN

BT
UNCLAS

SUBJ/SUBJ/2014 SECRETARY OF DEFENSE MAINTENANCE AWARD WINNERS//

NAVADMIN 218/14

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N4/SEP//

REF/A/RMG/CNO/231337ZDEC13

REF/B/RMG/CNO/121329ZDEC13

REF/C/LTR/OSD/02 SEP 2014 OSD (AT&L) MEMO//

NARR/NARR/REFS A AND B DESCRIBED THE 2014 DEFENSE MAINTENANCE AWARDS PROGRAM 
AND THE ROBERT T. MASON DEPOT EXCELLENCE AWARD PROGRAM.  REF C ANNOUNCED THE 
2014 SECDEF FIELD-LEVEL AND DEPOT*LEVEL MAINTENANCE AWARD WINNERS.// POC/LIZ 
NELSON/CIV/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N43C/ TEL: 703-695-8521//EMAIL:
ELIZABETH.A.NELSON(AT)NAVY.MIL//

RMKS/1.  Before announcing nominees for the Secretary of Defense Maintenance 
Awards, I want to personally thank the numerous commands that took the time 
to submit nomination packages that capture their exceptional performance.  
Your continued participation ensures that the best maintenance units are 
recognized for their outstanding support provided to our warfighters.  It is 
such an honor to review the results of your hard work and a pleasure to 
recognize this year *s nominees for the field-level Phoenix Award and the 
Robert T. Mason
Award:
A.  Field-Level Large Commands:
    USS GEORGE WASHINGTON (CVN 73)
    Trident Refit Facility (TRF) Kings Bay B.  Field-Level Medium Commands:
    Fleet Readiness Center Northwest (FRCNW)
    USS FRANK CABLE (AS 40)
C.  Field-Level Small Commands:
    Helicopter Maritime Strike Squadron (HSM 75)
    Strike Fighter Squadron 211 (VFA 211) D.  Robert T. Mason Depot Commands:
    Fleet Readiness Center Southeast (FRCSE)
    Puget Sound Naval Shipyard & Intermediate Maint Facility (PSNS &
    IMF)

2.  Navy displayed a strong showing in this competition, winning three of six 
awards:
A.  Large Category - USS GEORGE WASHINGTON (CVN 73) B.  Small Category - 
Helicopter Maritime Strike Squadron 75 (HSM 75)
                     Strike Fighter Squadron 211 (VFA 211)

3.  These awards will be formally presented on 18 November 2014 at the 
Secretary of Defense Maintenance Awards banquet and ceremony at the Sheraton 
Birmingham, in Birmingham, Alabama.  The highlight of this event will be the 
presentation of the Secretary Of Defense Phoenix Trophy, recognizing the 
*Best of the Best* maintenance unit within the Department of Defense.

4.  Congratulations and job well done to these three units!  They represent 
the very best of our military maintenance community that contributes directly 
to the readiness of our preeminent Navy.

5.  Released by VADM P.H. Cullom, N4.//

BT
#1031
NNNN

