UNCLASSIFIED//
ROUTINE
R 031529Z JUN 15
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC
BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 135/15

SUBJ/FY-16 NAVY RESERVE NATIONAL COMMAND AND SENIOR OFFICER (O5/O6) NON-
COMMAND BILLET SCREENING AND ASSIGNMENT BOARD//

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/JUN//
REF/A/DOC/COMNAVRESFOR/24MAR15/NOTAL//AMPN/REF A IS COMMANDER NAVY RESERVE 
FORCE NOTICE 5400, FISCAL YEAR 2016 NATIONAL COMMAND AND SENIOR OFFICER 
(O5/O6) NON-COMMAND BILLET SCREENING AND ASSIGNMENT PROCEDURES.//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN announces convening of the FY-16 Navy Reserve National 
Command and Senior Officer (O5/O6) Non-Command Billet Screening and 
Assignment *Apply* Board on 11 August 2015 or as soon as practicable 
thereafter.  All selected reserve officer communities will utilize the 
*Apply* board process for senior officer and command assignments.

2.  Eligible officers desiring a billet assignment are required to complete 
all applicable sections of the *Apply* application. Applications must be 
submitted via the *Apply* website available on the Navy Reserve Homeport at 
https://private.navyreserve.navy.mil/pages/default.aspx.  Officers should 
include billet preferences within their designator to meet community 
requirements.  Alternate billet selections may also be included to increase 
the opportunities for assignment.  Members are strongly encouraged to state 
their willingness to travel for billets not on their dream sheet to enable 
the board to select them for unadvertised vacancies.

3.  Applications must be finalized and billet preferences made no later than 
(NLT) 17 July 2015.

4.  With the exception of the most recent O-6 periodic fitness report 
(FITREP) (addressed in paragraph 5 below), all correspondence to the board 
must be received NLT 17 July 2015.  Submission methods are detailed in 
paragraph 6 below.  Late correspondence will not be considered by the board.

5.  The July 2015 O-6 FITREP will be accepted until 10 August 2015 and should 
be submitted as an enclosure to a letter addressed to the *Apply* board 
president.  Enclosures, other than the July 2015 O-6 FITREP, submitted after 
the regular correspondence deadline per paragraph 4, will be removed from the 
correspondence submission and will not be considered by the board.

6.  Board correspondence can be submitted via one of the following methods:
    a.  Encrypted e-mail (preferred) to cscselboard(at)navy.mil.
Subject line of e-mail should read:
    *FY-16 Navy Reserve National Command and Senior Officer (O5/O6)
    Non-Command Billet Screening and Assignment (Apply) Board (#391)
    ICO (Rank First Name Last Name, Designator)*.
    b.  Standard (U.S. Postal Service) mail (if encrypted e-mail is not 
available) to:
        Navy Personnel Command Customer Service Center
        FY-16 Navy Reserve National Command and Senior Officer
        (O5/O6)
        Non-Command Billet Screening and Assignment (Apply) Board
        (#391)
        5720 Integrity Drive
        Bldg 768, Room E302
        Millington, TN 38055-9200
    c.  Overnight/express mail requiring signature:
        Navy Personnel Command Customer Service Center
        FY-16 Navy Reserve National Command and Senior Officer
        (O5/O6)
        Non-Command Billet Screening and Assignment (Apply) Board
        (#391)
        5640 Ticonderoga Loop
        Millington, TN 38055-9200

7.  Officers who are not affiliated with the reserve component in a drill 
status must contact Commander, Navy Reserve Forces Command (COMNAVRESFORCOM) 
(N12) via e-mail at cnrfc_apply(at)navy.mil to request an account.

8.  Officers who are mobilized and unable to register in *Apply* due to 
limited internet connectivity should seek assistance through their 
operational support officer or contact COMNAVRESFORCOM (N12) for assistance 
via e-mail at cnrfc_apply(at)navy.mil.

9.  Officers must be qualified per reference (a) to be considered for an 
assignment.  Additionally, officers seeking continuation are directed to the 
PERS-91 website http://www.npc.navy.mil/BUPERS-
NPC/CAREER/RESERVEPERSONNELMGMT/OFFICERS/Pages/Continuation.aspx.

10.  Interested officers not being considered for billet assignment are 
encouraged to serve as a board member or board recorder.

11.  *Apply* board assignments are assumed to be accepted by selected 
officers.  Officers who desire to decline awarded billets must do so within 
14 days following release of official results via the *Apply* website.

12.  Point of contact is LCDR Sean Dubbs, *Apply*/Officer Assignments, (N122) 
at (757) 322-2259/DSN 262 or via e-mail at sean.dubbs(at)navy.mil.

13.  This message will remain in effect until superseded or canceled, 
whichever occurs first.

14.  Released by Vice Admiral W. F. Moran, N1.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
