UNCLASSIFIED
ROUTINE
R 261711Z OCT 15
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC
BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 250/15

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/OCT//

SUBJ/FY-17 RESERVE COMPONENT FOREIGN AREA OFFICER REDESIGNATION BOARD//

REF/A/MSG/CNO WASHINGTON DC/131210ZAUG15//
REF/B/DOC/BUPERS/17SEP07//
NARR/REF A IS NAVADMIN 188/15, ESTABLISHMENT OF THE RESERVE COMPONENT FOREIGN 
AREA OFFICER COMMUNITY. REF B IS BUPERSINST 1001.39F, ADMINISTRATIVE 
PROCEDURES FOR NAVY RESERVISTS.//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN announces convening of the FY-17 Reserve Component 
(RC) Foreign Area Officer (FAO) Redesignation Board on 16 February 2016.  
Applications from qualified Selected Reserve (SELRES) officers will be 
accepted for this board.

2.  Complete application packages and waiver requests must be received by the 
Navy Personnel Command (NPC) Customer Service Center (CSC) no later than 1 
January 2016.  Applications should be submitted electronically to 
cscselboard(at)navy.mil.  Electronic submissions are the preferred delivery 
method and must be sent using military e-mail accounts and be encrypted.  
Applications may be mailed to NPC CSC.  Hard copy and electronic submissions 
must include command endorsement.  The application mailing address is: 

    a.  Navy Personnel Command Customer Service Center
        President FY-17 Navy Selected Reserve Foreign Area Officer
        Redesignation Board #324
        5720 Integrity Drive
        Millington TN 38055
    b.  Express mail:
        Navy Personnel Command Customer Service Center
        President FY-17 Navy Selected Reserve Foreign Area Officer
        Redesignation Board #324
        5640 Ticonderoga Loop Bldg 768 RM E302
        Millington TN 38055

3.  Eligibility.  The RC FAO redesignation board is offering opportunities 
for SELRES officers from all designators to meet immediate manning needs of 
the newly established RC FAO community.
     a.  All applicants must meet the eligibility requirements outlined in 
reference (a) and the FY-17 RC FAO eligibility criteria 
document:http://www.public.navy.mil/bupers-
npc/officer/communitymanagers/reserve/selres/Pages/default.aspx.
     b.  Members who do not meet all eligibility requirements per reference 
(a) and the FY-17 RC FAO eligibility criteria posted on the SELRES 
redesignation website may submit a waiver request with their application.  
Waiver packages shall include member's waiver request and commanding 
officer's endorsement of the waiver request. This endorsement is separate 
from any endorsements contained in the member's redesignation application and 
shall specifically address the eligibility criterion requiring a waiver.  
Waiver request procedures and constraints are described in the eligibility 
criteria document.  An example of a waiver request can be found on the SELRES 
redesignation website listed in paragraph 3a.
     c.  All SELRES officers will incur a 3 year drilling obligation in the 
SELRES upon transfer into the RC FAO community.

4.  Application requirements and procedures are provided on the SELRES 
redesignation board website listed in paragraph 3a.

5.  Upon approval of the board proceedings, the results of the board will be 
posted on the SELRES redesignation board website listed in paragraph 3a.  
Applicants can expect to see the results posted within 45 days of board 
adjournment.  Selectees have 14 calendar days from the date results are 
released to accept or decline RC FAO redesignation.

6.  Points of contact are CDR John Hazlett, PERS-92 at (901) 874-4512/DSN 882 
or PSC(AW) Catherine Kuntz, PERS-92 at (901) 874-3209/DSN 882.

7.  This NAVADMIN will remain in effect until superseded or canceled.

8.  Released by Vice Admiral W. F. Moran, N1.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
