UNCLASSIFIED
ROUTINE
R 131346Z APR 17
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC
BT
UNCLAS
PASS TO OFFICE CODES:
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//

NAVADMIN 090/17

MSGID/GENDAMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/APR//

SUBJ/FY-19 ACTIVE-DUTY LIMITED DUTY OFFICER AND CHIEF WARRANT OFFICER IN-
SERVICE PROCUREMENT BOARDS//

REF/A/DOC/OPNAV/14DEC09//
REF/B/MSG/CNO WASHINGTON DC/171307ZSEP12//
REF/C/MSG/CNO WASHINGTON DC/221403ZMAR13//
REF/D/DOC/COMNAVPERSCOM/30MAY13//
REF/E/MSG/CNO WASHINGTON DC/071628ZOCT13//
REF/F/MSG/CNO WASHINGTON DC/291916ZMAR16//
REF/G/DOC/OPNAV/24DEC05//
REF/H/MSG/CNO WASHINGTON DC/131544ZDEC07//
NARR/REF A IS OPNAVINST 1420.1B, ENLISTED TO OFFICER COMMISSIONING 
PROGRAMSAPPLICATION ADMINISTRATIVE MANUAL.  
REF B IS NAVADMIN 281/12, ADVANCED CHANGE NOTICE TO OPNAVINST 1420.1B CHAPTER 
SEVEN, LIMITED DUTY OFFICER AND CHIEF WARRANT OFFICER APPLICATION INSTRUCTION 
AND POLICY.  
REF C IS NAVADMIN 070/13, NUCLEAR TRAINED SAILOR APPLICATIONS TO OFFICER 
COMMISSIONING PROGRAMS.  
REF D IS MILPERSMAN 1220-100, NAVY (ND) DIVER RATING.  
REF E IS NAVADMIN 259/13, CHANGE TO THE CYBER WARRANT OFFICER COMMISSIONING 
PROGRAM.  
REF F IS NAVADMIN 079/16, ESTABLISHMENT OF THE OCEANOGRAPHY CHIEF WARRANT 
OFFICER DESIGNATOR 780X.  
REF G IS OPNAVINST 1210.5, LATERAL TRANSFER/REDESIGNATION AND AUGMENTATION OF 
OFFICERS IN THE NAVY.
REF H IS NAVADMIN 336/07, ADMINISTRATION OF THE NAVY-WIDE ADVANCEMENT EXAM 
FOR SAILORS IN IRAQ, AFGHANISTAN, AND THE HORN OF AFRICA.//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN supplements reference (a) and cancels reference (b).  
Where conflicts with reference (a) exist, this NAVADMIN takes precedence.

2.  This NAVADMIN announces solicitation of applications from highly 
qualified and motivated E-6 through E-9 active duty and Full-Time Support 
personnel for the FY-19 Limited Duty Officer (LDO) and Chief Warrant Officer 
(CWO) Programs.  LDOs and CWOs bring a variety of experience and unique 
perspectives into the wardroom from their enlisted service.  The LDO/CWO 
career paths provide additional leadership opportunities and enhance a 
Sailors ability to contribute to the Navy.  These programs deliver to the 
officer corps seasoned professionals with proven leadership abilities at an 
economical cost.  LDOs provide broad technical management and leadership 
skills, and CWOs provide specific technical expertise and leadership skills 
in support of the Unrestricted Line, Restricted Line, and Staff Corps 
communities.  LDOs and CWOs serve in a variety of leadership billets within 
their technical fields, ranging from division officer to commanding officer 
(CO) ashore.

3.  All Time in Service (TIS) and Time in Grade (TIG) requirements for the 
FY-19 board will be computed to 1 October 2018.

4.  Updated policy guidance to reference (a).
    a.  Non-nuclear applicants:
        (1) Time in service (TIS) eligibility requirements are:
            LDO:  8-14 years TIS for E6 and above
            CWO:  14-20 years TIS for E7 and E8
            CWO:  14-22 years TIS for E9

In order to support career progression models and maximize Navy’s return on 
investment, TIS waivers for LDO and CWO applications will not be considered.
        (2) Chief, frocked Chief, Senior Chief, frocked Senior Chief, and 
frocked Master Chief Petty Officers selected for CWO will be appointed to the 
grade of CWO2.  Personnel advanced to pay grade
E-9 as of the day the board convenes, will be appointed to CWO3.
    b.  Nuclear applicants:
        (1) For nuclear-trained LDO applicants, TIS eligibility is 8 to 16 
years.  Waivers for TIS greater than 16 years will not be considered.
        (2) Nuclear-trained personnel are reminded of the requirement to 
obtain a conditional release from nuclear field duty per reference (c) prior 
to submitting an application for any officer commissioning program.
        (3) Applications will not be accepted for nuclear CWO designator 
(740X).
        (4) Nuclear designated LDO selectees who do not successfully complete 
a final technical interview will maintain their enlisted status and not be 
commissioned as LDOs.  Technical interviews will be scheduled by Nuclear 
Placement and Assignments PERS-422 and selectees will be notified via 
separate correspondence.
    c.  Navy Diver applicants applying for designator (720X) must possess the 
Master Diver Navy Enlisted Classification (NEC) 5341 or be a CPO/SCPO First 
Class Diver (NEC 5342) who meets all eligibility requirements to attend 
Master Diver evaluations in reference (d), paragraph 18b(5)(a) through (i), 
with the following exceptions:
        (1) Paragraph 18b(5)(c):  Served at least 12 months at a fourth 
diving command.
        (2) Paragraph 18b(5)(h):  Successfully passed the written master 
Diver Course Pretest within the last 24 months.
    d.  The FY-19 board will consider applicants for Cyber Chief Warrant 
Officers (784X).  Personnel applying for this designator must meet 
eligibility requirements listed in reference (e).
    e.  The FY-19 board will consider applicants for Oceanography Chief 
Warrant Officers (780X).  Personnel applying for this designator must meet 
eligibility requirements listed in reference (f).
    f.  Non-nuclear CWO applicants for LDO (LTJG) must have at least 2 years 
TIG and be between 14 and 16 years total active service as of 1 October 2018.  
This enables selectees a full career opportunity as an LDO.  LDO LTJG 
selectees will terminate their CWO status and become a permanent LDO upon 
appointment.  Due to unique opportunities for CWOs selected for LDO in 
Information Warfare Community (IWC) designators, TIS waivers will be 
considered on a case by case basis.  IWC applicants must meet requirements 
per reference (g) to off-ramp to their parent RL designators.  Per reference 
(a), CWO applicants for LDO do not require interview appraisals.
    g.  CO/OIC endorsement located on page 10 of OPNAV 1420/1 (Rev 01-08) 
must contain the following statement:  "Applicant meets all requirements 
outlined in OPNAVINST 1420.1B, NAVADMIN XXX/17 (use the NAVADMIN # for this 
message), and the physical fitness standards of OPNAVINST 6110.1J."
    h.  Applicants are not required to include an obligatory service 
statement to remain on active duty as part of their personal statement.  This 
requirement is included as part of the appointment documentation signed upon 
commissioning.
    i.  CWO obligatory service is 6 years vice 4 years from commissioning.

5.  The FY-19 Active-Duty LDO/CWO In-Service Procurement Board will convene 
at a date to be determined in January 2018.  For the most current board 
dates, visit the Navy Personnel Command (NPC) board webpage at 
http://www.public.navy.mil/bupers-
npc/boards/selectionboardsupport/pages/default2.aspx and select "FY-19 Board 
Schedule" when available.  Applications must be postmarked no later than 1 
October 2017.  Routine addendums to applications, excluding evaluations and 
awards, must be received no later than 1 December 2017.  Evaluations and 
awards must be received no later than 1 January 2018.  Addendums can be 
signed by direction if the CO or OIC is unavailable.  Communication to the 
board must originate from the individual Service member.  Information 
received that is not under the applicants cover letter (e.g., third party 
correspondence) and endorsed by the command, or not postmarked or received by 
NPC Selection Board Support Division by the established deadline(s) will not 
be presented to the board.  The time and date (central standard time) 
received in the NPC Selection Board Support Division inbox is the time and 
date used for deadline verification. Although a late submission may be 
accepted by the NPC Selection Board Support Division, it will not be 
presented to the board.  All applications/addendums must have the Service 
members full social security number on each page.  The preferred method of 
submission is mailing the original application.  Only time-sensitive 
submissions should be submitted electronically.  Electronic addendums must be 
sent using military e-mail accounts and be encrypted.  Hardcopy and 
electronic submissions must include a command endorsement.  Board number 180 
is for CWO to lieutenant junior grade (LTJG), and board number 181 is for 
enlisted to LDO/CWO.

The application mailing address is:

    a.  President, FY-19 Active CWO to LDO/LTJG In-service Procurement
        Selection Board 19180
        Navy Personnel Command
        PERS-35 Selection Board Support Division
        Bldg 769 Rm 198
        5720 Integrity Drive
        Millington TN 38055-3500

    b.  Express mail:
        Navy Personnel Command Selection Board Support Division President,
        FY-19 Active CWO to LDO/LTJG In-service Procurement Program
        Board #19180
        5640 Ticonderoga Loop Bldg 768 RM E302
        Millington TN 38055


    c.  Navy Personnel Command Selection Board Support Division President,
        FY-19 Active/FTS Enlisted to LDO/CWO In-service Procurement
        Selection Board  #19181
        PERS-35 Selection Board Support Division
        Bldg 769 Rm 198
        5720 Integrity Drive
        Millington TN 38055-3500

    d.  Express mail:
        Navy Personnel Selection Board Support Division President,
        FY-19 Active/FTS Enlisted to LDO/CWO In-service Procurement
        Program Board #19181
        5640 Ticonderoga Loop Bldg 768 RM E302
        Millington TN 38055

    e.  E-mail:  cscselboard(at)navy.mil (time-sensitive documents only)

6.  Interview appraisal boards will be constructed and approved by the 
CO/Officer in Charge (OIC) and consist of a minimum of three naval officers 
(LDO/CWO if available).  The senior member of the interview panel should be a 
lieutenant commander or above.  Every effort will be used to ensure at least 
one board member is from the designator for which the applicant is applying 
(including but not limited to teleconference, video teleconference, defense 
connect online, etc.).  Minimum grade requirements for board members are 
LTJG, or CWO2 with two years’ time in grade (TIG).  A minimum of three 
(maximum of five) interview appraisals must be submitted for each applicant.  
The Potential block on interview appraisals must be marked for LDO/CWO 
candidates.  Only the current version of the Interviewers Appraisal Sheet 
(NAVCRUIT 1131/5 Rev 02-2014) will be accepted.

7.  For applicants who have or are currently serving in an Individual 
Augmentation Manpower Management (IAMM), Global Support Assignment (GSA), or 
Overseas Contingency Operations Support Assignment (OSA), include these tours 
in the Assignment History section of the application.  CO/OIC recommendation 
must include validation of any listed IA/GSA assignment.

8.  Applicants currently serving in an IAMM, GSA, or OSA assignment may have 
their application endorsed by the field commander.  All applications endorsed 
by field commanders must have parent command concurrence.  A sample 
concurrence letter is located at http://www.public.navy.mil/bupers-
npc/boards/administrative/ldo_cwo/Pages/default.aspx.

9.  Applicants must ensure copies of their most recent periodic evaluations 
are included in the application or later addendum for board review and 
continuity.  First Class Petty Officers must submit their 15 November 2017 
evaluation via an addendum if it is not already reflected in the Official 
Military Personnel File.

10.  As a result of the LDO/CWO sustainability initiative, applications will 
not be accepted for the following non-nuclear active-duty designators:  615X, 
621X, 647X, 655X, 680X, 7211, 7231, 7281, 7481, 749X, 7511, and 7531.

11.  Due to ongoing rating mergers or realignments, eligible Sailors are 
encouraged to apply for the designator for which they have extensive 
documented technical and leadership experience in their Enlisted Service 
Records, regardless of current rating.  However, special attention should be 
given to the guidance in paragraph 9c of reference (a).

12.  Applicants must maintain eligibility throughout the selection and 
promotion process.  Applicants who are deemed ineligible after submitting an 
application must be declared ineligible by their current CO/OIC.  A sample 
format is located at http://www.public.navy.mil/bupers-
npc/boards/administrative/ldo_cwo/Pages/default.aspx.

13.  Each applicant and command must ensure applications are complete and 
accurate.  Incomplete applications could result in non-selection.  Refer to 
reference (a), (chapters 2, 7 and appendix f) for program overview, 
eligibility criteria, and application format.

14.  For the most current application process visit the Administrative Boards 
Branch (PERS-803) website at http://www.public.navy.mil/bupers-
npc/boards/administrative/ldo_cwo/pages/default.aspx.  This site contains 
application help and a review checklist for commands to print and include in 
the application folder.  This site also contains guidance such as NPC 
Selection Board Support mailing information, a link to check receipt of the 
application/addendum, how to monitor application status after PERS-803 
review, and how to reconcile application errors via addendum if items or 
corrections are required for completeness or eligibility.

15.  For the most current information concerning open designator codes, visit 
the LDO/CWO officer community manager website at 
http://www.public.navy.mil/bupers-
npc/officer/communitymanagers/ldo_cwo/pages/references.aspx and click on the 
LDO and CWO designators link.

16.  First Class Petty Officers serving in Iraq, Afghanistan, and The Horn of 
Africa that are determined Chief Petty Officer board eligible per reference 
(h) are also eligible for LDO if all other eligibility requirements are met.

17.  Points of contact:
    a.  For application and eligibility questions contact the NPC board 
sponsor LT Beau Blanchard at (901) 874-3170/DSN 882; e-mail: 
beau.blanchard(at)navy.mil or Mr. Joseph Delfoe at (901) 874- 3849/DSN 882; 
e-mail: joseph.delfoe(at)navy.mil.
    b.  For general LDO/CWO career path and policy questions contact LT Holly 
Taylor at (901) 874-4714/DSN 882; e-mail: holly.r.taylor(at)navy.mil or Mr. 
Mitch Allen (901) 874-3044/DSN 882; e-mail: mitchell.allen(at)navy.mil.
    c.  For nuclear-trained Sailor application and eligibility questions, 
contact CDR David Etheridge at (703) 604-5489/DSN 664; e- mail: 
david.f.etheridge(at)navy.mil.

18.  This NAVADMIN will remain in effect until superseded or 30 September 
2018, whichever comes first.

19.  Released by Vice Admiral R. P. Burke, N1.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//

