UNCLASSIFIED/

ROUTINE

R 101501Z APR 15

FM CNO WASHINGTON DC

TO NAVADMIN

INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC

BT
UNCLAS

SUBJ/NAVY CYBERSECURITY WORKFORCE CREDENTIALS 

NAVADMIN 084/15

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N2N6/APR//

REF/A/MSG/CNO/WASHINGTON DC/281336ZOCT14//

REF/B/LTR/DONCIO/28FEB11//

REF/C/LTR/DONCIO/8FEB12//

REF/D/DOC/SECNAVI 1543.2/30NOV12//

REF/E/DOC/SECNAV M-5239.2/MAY2009//

REF/F/DOC/DODD 8570.01/15AUG04//

REF/G/DOC/DODI 8500.01/14MAR14//

NARR/Reference (a) is NAVADMIN 250/14, Navy Cybersecurity Workforce 
Credentials.  Reference (b) is Department of the Navy Chief Information 
Officer (DON CIO) memo, Guidance for Civilian Cybersecurity/Information 
Assurance (IA) Workforce Commercial Certification Compliance Process.  
Reference (c) is DON CIO memo, Guidance for Cybersecurity Workforce Operating 
System (OS)/Computing Environment Certification Compliance Process.  Refence 
(d) is SECNAVINST 1543.2, Cyberspace/Information Technology (IT) Workforce 
Continuous Learning.  Reference (e) is SECNAV-M 5239.2, IA Workforce 
Management Manual.  Reference (f) is Department of Defense (DoD) Directive 
8570.01, IA Training, Certification, and Workforce Management.  Reference (g) 
is DOD Instruction 8500.01, Cybersecurity.

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN supersedes reference (a).  Deadlines from reference 
(a) are henceforth based on fiscal year vice calendar year to better align 
mission and resource requirements throughout the Navy.  As a result, the 31 
March 2015 deadline from reference (a) is extended.  Commanders and Command 
Information Officers are directed to comply with references (d) and (e) for 
remediation of the stated workforce deficiencies no later than 30 September 
2015.

2.  In accordance with references (b) through (d), all Navy Cybersecurity 
Workforce (CSWF) personnel (active duty, reserve, civilian, and contractor) 
are required to hold valid cybersecurity baseline credentials and complete 40 
hours of continuing education units (CEUs) each year.  Failure to complete 
this annual requirement and maintain the appropriate credential for a 
cybersecurity position places the employee at risk for removal from the CSWF 
position requiring credentials.  Expired commercial certifications are a 
demonstration of non-compliance with prescribed DoD and Secretary of the Navy 
policies in references (b) through (g).

3.  Scope and Applicability.  This NAVADMIN applies to all designated Navy 
CSWF personnel assigned to CSWF positions for six months or more.  In 
accordance with references (d) and (e), personnel may complete a combination 
of position relevant training, education, experiential learning, and 
commercial certification activities to fulfill the 40-hour annual CEU 
requirement.  Department of the Navy Chief Information Officer conferences, 
and courses via Federal Virtual Training Environment, Skillport, and Navy 
Knowledge Online are examples of activities that may qualify for continuing 
education units.  To assist personnel with maintaining valid commercial 
certifications, CSWF personnel may continue to request vouchers from Navy 
Credentialing Opportunities On-line (COOL) to fund the annual continuing 
education and/or maintenance fees.  Navy COOL will not pay for any 
recertifying activities for an expired certification.  Further information is 
available at the Navy COOL website https://www.cool.navy.mil//.

4.  CSWF personnel who fail to complete the aforementioned requirements are 
not qualified to serve in CSWF positions, negatively impact Command 
readiness, and weaken the Navy*s overall cybersecurity posture.

5.  Points of contact are as follows:  Policy - Ms. Brooke Zimmerman at (571) 
256-8521 or brooke.zimmerman(at)navy.mil; Navy Cybersecurity Workforce 
Program Management (CSWF-PM) Office - Mr. Mike Knight at (757) 203-3135 or 
henry.knight(at)navy.mil; Navy Cool - Mr. Keith Boring at (850) 452-6683 or 
keith.boring(at)navy.mil.//

6.  This NAVADMIN will remain in effect until cancelled or superseded.

7.  Released by VADM Ted N. Branch, OPNAV N2N6.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//

