UNCLASSIFIED
ROUTINE
R 211859Z DEC 17
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC
BT
UNCLAS
PASS TO OFFICE CODES:
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//

NAVADMIN 304/17

MSGID/GENADMIN CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/DEC//

SUBJ/PHYSICAL READINESS PROGRAM POLICY CHANGE//

REF/A/DOC/OPNAV/11JUL11//
REF/B/DOC/NAVPERS/22AUG02//
REF/C/DOC/BUPERS/01MAY15//
REF/D/DOC/BUPERS/6MAY14//
REF/E/DOC/SECNAV/26AUG15//
NARR/REF A IS OPNAVINST 6110.1J, PHYSICAL READINESS PROGRAM.  
REF B IS NAVPERS 15560D, NAVAL MILITARY PERSONNEL MANUAL.  
REF C IS BUPERSINST 1610.10D, NAVY PERFORMANCE EVALUATION SYSTEMS.  
REF D IS BUPERSINST 1430.16F CH-1, ADVANCEMENT MANUAL FOR ENLISTED PERSONNEL 
IN THE U.S. NAVY AND U.S. NAVY RESERVE.  
REF E IS SECNAVINST 1920.6C CH-5, ADMINISTRATIVE SEPARATION OF OFFICERS.//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN announces revised Physical Readiness Program 
separation policies.  Adjustments to Physical Readiness Program policies 
reflect a continued emphasis to invest in and retain our most important 
resource, our Sailors.  Retention of every capable Sailor is critical to the 
operational readiness of the Navy.  The goal of the Navys physical readiness 
program is to maintain a minimum prescribed level of fitness necessary for 
world-wide deployment and to maintain a Sailors long-term health and 
wellness. Revisions to references (a), (b), and (c) are forthcoming and will 
be published at a later date.

2.  Effective immediately:
    a.  All commands will discontinue processing members for separation as a 
result of Physical Fitness Assessment (PFA) failures.  Separation orders 
resulting from PFA failures prior to Soft End of Active Obligated Service 
(SEAOS) with approved dates after 31 March 2018 are cancelled.  Officers with 
approved separation orders for PFA failure with a directed separation date 
prior to 1 March 2018 can request their separation orders be cancelled in 
order to remain in the Navy by contacting PERS-834, subject to Secretary of 
Navy (SECNAV) approval.
    b.  MILPERSMAN 1910-170, Separation by Reason of PFA Failure, is 
cancelled.

3.  The following applies to all enlisted members:
    a.  Enlisted members who:
        (1) Fail one PFA will:
            (a) Be issued a NAVPERS 1070/613 via Navy Standard Integrated 
Personnel System (NSIPS) to inform them of the PFA failure.
            (b) Be enrolled in the Fitness Enhancement Program (FEP) until 
passing the next official PFA.
            (c) Not be frocked or advanced.  Members may regain eligibility 
for promotion by passing a command-directed monthly FEP mock PFA.  However, 
they must still remain enrolled in FEP until passing the next official PFA.
        (2) Fail two or more consecutive PFAs will continue service until 
SEAOS.  Additionally these members:
            (a) Will be ineligible for advancement under reference (a).
            (b) Will be ineligible to reenlist or extend under reference (b).
            (c) Will receive an adverse report that states Significant 
Problems on evaluation under reference (c).
            (d) Will be detailed as required.  Changes to any program that 
has specific PFA requirements will be announced via revision to its governing 
instruction.
            (e) May regain eligibility for advancement and reenlistment by 
passing one subsequent official PFA.  In line with references (c) and (d), 
members must obtain the recommendation of their CO for advancement and 
retention on their most recent evaluation.  This may require a special 
evaluation to restore retention or advancement recommendations after a member 
passes an official PFA.
    b.  For those members who currently have approved separation or Fleet 
Reserve dates as a result of the previous PFA separation policy, the 
following information and guidelines are provided:
        (1) Members who currently have approved separation dates not aligned 
to their SEAOS on or before 31 March 2018 must contact their chain of command 
and decide no later than 1 February 2018 whether to cancel their 
separation/reserve orders and remain on active duty or execute their orders 
as originally planned.  Every effort will be made to retain Sailors who 
desire to stay Navy.
        (2) Enlisted members with SEAOS between 1 January 2018 and 30 June 
2018 who are ineligible for retention or cannot submit a Career Waypoints (C-
WAY) application due to adverse evaluations as a result of past PFA failure 
history and desire to stay Navy are authorized an extension to regain 
eligibility with command endorsement as follows:
            (a) Requested extension length should be of sufficient duration 
to allow for processing of a future special evaluation and application in C-
WAY (if applicable), but must not exceed 30 September 2018.
            (b) Because this is an exception to policy, this action will not 
require a C-WAY quota (if applicable).
            (c) Once the member successfully passes the official Cycle 1, 
2018 PFA, and has retention eligibility restored from the CO, the member can 
submit their reenlistment/extension request directly to their CO, or Bureau 
of Naval Personnel (BUPERS) Enlisted Community Manager (BUPERS-32) for 
enlisted members who must use C-WAY.  For Nuclear-trained members, all 
requests must be submitted via their CO to Deputy Chief of Naval Operations 
Nuclear Program Manager (OPNAV (N133)).  In all cases, the Physical Readiness
Information Management Systems (PRIMS) results must show the Cycle 1, 2018 
results.
    c.  Members with approved Fleet Reserve dates on or after 31 July 2018 
who pass Cycle 1, 2018 and desire to remain on active duty must first submit 
a cancellation request no later than 1 May 2018 to Commander, Navy Personnel 
Command (COMNAVPERSCOM) Enlisted Retirements Office (PERS-836) at the 
following e-mail address: enlisted_active_duty_retirements(at)navy.mil.  Once 
received, approval of the Fleet Reserve cancellation request serves as 
authority to cancel previously issued retirement orders, which are issued by 
the local supporting personnel office.  PERS-836 will forward all approved 
cancellation requests to COMNAVPERSCOM, Enlisted Assignment Division (PERS-
40), and to OPNAV (N133) for all nuclear-trained members.
    d.  Enlisted personnel affected by this change to PFA separation policy, 
who desire to stay Navy, must maintain advancement eligibility as outlined in 
reference (d) to participate in the Navy-Wide Advancement Exam (NWAE).  This 
may require a special evaluation to restore advancement recommendation once 
the member passes an official PFA.
    e.  Members who desire to stay Navy:
        (1) Who are not in receipt of separation/retirement orders but are 
within seven months of their Projected Rotation Date (PRD) must contact their 
detailer who can make a Career Management System Interactive (CMS-ID) 
application for them in the next CMS-ID cycle.
        (2) Who are in their normal 7-12 month negotiation window should 
submit an application via CMS-ID.  Those affected members beyond 12 months 
from their PRD will follow the normal detailing processes.

4.  The following applies to all officers who:
    a.  Fail one PFA will:
       (1) Not be eligible for promotion.  Commands are required to delay 
promotion and inform PERS-833.  Members will regain eligibility for promotion 
by passing the next command-directed monthly FEP mock PFA.
       (2) Be issued a Letter of Notification to inform them of the PFA 
failure.
       (3) Be enrolled in the FEP until passing the next official PFA.
    b.  Fail two or more consecutive PFAs will be submitted to PERS-834 for 
administrative separation processing under reference (e).
        (1) If SECNAV determines the officer is to be separated (or retired), 
this action will occur at the PRD of the officer or upon the determination of 
SECNAV, whichever is later.
        (2) If an officer passes an official PFA prior to the decision of 
SECNAV on retention or separation, processing will cease and the member will 
be retained upon notification to PERS-834.  A special fitness Report may be 
submitted to document the officers satisfactory physical readiness status 
under reference (c).
        (3) Additionally, officers who fail two or more consecutive
PFAs will receive an adverse report that states Significant Problems
on their fitness report under reference (c).

5.  Additional information that applies to all members:
    a.  Effective 1 January 2018 all PFA failures will reset to zero only for 
enlisted reenlistment policy and officer administrative separation policy as 
outlined in paragraphs 3.a and 4.  No other records will be changed such as 
PRIMS, Fitness Reports or Evaluations.
    b.  All members must have a Body Composition Assessment (BCA) completed 
within five work days of reporting to a new command.  This BCA spot-check 
will not count as the official BCA for newly reported members during the 
command PFA cycle, regardless of the status of the official command PFA 
cycle.  Members exceeding Age Adjusted Body Fat Standards (AAS) during spot-
checks must be enrolled into Command FEP.
    c.  FEP enrollment and disenrollment determination:  Upon either a BCA 
spot-check failure or PFA failure, members must participate in FEP until they 
pass an official PFA and are within AAS.
    d.  All members who have regained promotion/advancement eligibility are 
reminded of their ability to communicate in writing to promotion and 
selection boards as outlined in MILPERSMAN 1420-010 of reference (b) and 
reference (d).

6.  The Nuclear Propulsion Program Manager, OPNAV (N133), will remain the 
single point of contact on all PFA failure policy matters relating to Naval 
Nuclear Propulsion Program (NNPP) personnel.
    a.  Nuclear-trained members may be granted an exception to the criteria 
of paragraphs 3 and 4 with approval of OPNAV (N133).
    b.  All recommendations for administrative separation processing for 
nuclear-trained officers will be submitted to OPNAV (N133) for review and 
approval.

7.  Points of contact.  Physical Readiness Program, Mr. Bill Moore at 
(901)874-2210 or PRIMS(at)navy.mil.  For all other personnel related 
policies:  NAVPERSCOM at 1-866-827-5672 (U-ASK-NPC).

8.  Released by Vice Admiral Robert P. Burke, N1.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
