RTTUZYUW RUEWMCS0000 2101802-UUUU--RUCRNAD.
ZNR UUUUU
R 291802Z JUL 13
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//
TO NAVADMIN
BT
UNCLAS//N01420//

NAVADMIN 190/13

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/JUL// 

SUBJ/ACTIVE DUTY PERMANENT PROMOTIONS TO GRADES OF CAPTAIN, COMMANDER, 
LIEUTENANT COMMANDER, LIEUTENANT, AND CHIEF WARRANT OFFICERS IN THE LINE AND 
STAFF CORPS// 

RMKS/1.  Congratulations to the following officers on their promotions to the 
ranks indicated in this message.  This NAVADMIN is the authority for 
effecting temporary and permanent officer promotions on the dates indicated.  
Members are directed to verify their select status via BUPERS On-Line.  
Columns read name and designator.
                    Permanent Promotion to Captain
         Captain Staff Senate Confirmation Date 30 June 2011
                    DOR/Eff Date 1 September 2012
 Miller Bruce Martin    2300      
            Captain Line and Staff Senate Confirmation Date 
  Line 21 June 2012                    Staff 21 June 2012
                    DOR/Eff Date 1 August 2013
 Blazes David L         2100         Daniels Timothy L      3100
 Domen Ramona Mania     2900         Failla Christopher P   1310
 Filardi Paul Jason     1510         Harbour Joel Patrick   1440
 Harris James M         2100         Hill James Michael     2200
 Hyink Jeffrey F        1310         Mann John Jacob IV     1310
 McConvey William Augus 1310         Nilsen Johnny Martin   2500
 Peterson David Thomas  1110         Stacpoole Richard Mark 1710
 Walsh William S        1310
                   Permanent Promotion to Commander
         Commander Line and Staff Senate Confirmation Date 
   Line 21 June 2012                   Staff 26 July 2012
                    DOR/Eff Date 1 August 2013
 Barnett Kevin Scott    6410         Blankenbaker Susanne E 2900
 Carney Joseph R        2100         Conrardy Julie Anne    2900
 Craddock Timothy A     1110         Cyre Erik Lee          1310
 Duerden John D         2100         Eaton Charles Edward   1110
 Garcia Danny Jose      1710         Johnson Joseph Paul    1320
 Kline Michael Paul     1510         Koster Chad Christophe 5100
 Lang Mark Ray          2900         Lee Michael David      1310
 Montgomery James Chris 1320         Montinola John Gerard  3100
 Oconnor Sean Thomas    1830         Paul Michael J         1320
 Phillips Ryan Martin   1310         Plocher Corey Jerard   1310
 Plummer William J III  2300         Reidy Timothy P Jr     1120
 Stencil Brenda Marie   1200         Sullivan Michael Andre 2100
 Wetherbee Donald Gist  1130         White David James      1820
 Williams Christopher G 1440      
    Lieutenant Commander Line and Staff Senate Confirmation Date 
   Line 22 September 2012              Staff 22 September 2012
                    DOR/Eff Date 1 August 2013
 Balazs George Christia 2100         Baum Emily Cunningham  2100
 Bernotavicius Christop 1120         Bily Mollie Ann        1440
 Calvio Lisseth C       2300         Coudray Aaron David    1120
 Doane Thomas Merrill   6320         Duff Jason Michael     2300
 Dvorak William Travis  1110         Gaffney Mimi Haivan    1830
 Gray Sean Patrick      1120         Grovner George III     6260
 Hahn Brian A           2500         Hartman Benjamin Ron   1320
 Heuser Larry Joe       6390         Hill Marian Debaugh    6420
 Hinz Ryan Lee          1110         Hollinger Mathew E     1110
 Hooper Amanda Brooke   2100         Jindra Brian Nikolaus  1320
 Johns David Anthony    1120         Kearns Erick Marshall  1110
 Kimberling Robert Jose 2900         Klinedinst Blake Andre 1120
 Krauss Tracy Ranea     2900         Kushner Adam George    5100
 Latta David John       1120         Lattus Gene Michael Jr 3100
 Liebhardt Damian John  2100         Lizek Andrew Len       2100
 Mackey Tracy Lynn      6310         McCarthy Michael Kelly 2100
 McDowell Robert Joseph 1120         Meador Michael Kamer   1810
 Merritt Robert Benjami 1320         Milsom Dennis James Jr 1120
 Murawski Jeffery Josep 1110         Nennich Todd Michael   6410
 Neverosky Daniel Thoma 1460         Peterson Jeffrey Allen 2900
 Rhoades Brian Michael  1120         Roberts Clayton Vincen 1110
 Scancella Jenifer Mari 2300         Schoenrock Dean Stanle 6320
 Smith Scott Jayson     1120         Steffen Savanna Skye   1200
 Storz Garth William    1120         Struck James Robert    1310
 Talk Douglas W         2100         Turley Billy Dale      2200
 Vannyhuis Joshua Adam  1320         Warner Christopher Jam 2100         
 Washington Sean Christ 1320         Wrenn Robert Jeffery   6430         
 Zaycek Amy Partridge   2900
           Temporary Promotion to Lieutenant Commander  No officers promoted 
in this category.
                Permanent Promotion to Lieutenant
                    DOR/Eff Date 1 June 2013
 Allen John Cary        1320      
                    DOR/Eff Date 1 August 2013
 Alvarez Matthew Terenc 1310         Bailey John Carl       1320
 Baker Kevin Michael    3100         Baker William Zachary  1320
 Beautyman Michael John 1460         Begin Les M            3100
 Bergman Adam H         1310         Bickford Nathan Aaron  1220
 Brenes Any             2900         Brenes Manuel Adolfo   2900
 Brodersen Bradford Chr 1310         Bruno Mark Joseph Igna 3100
 Carbajal Ulises Osmin  3100         Chuda Scott Richard    1310
 Clark Leslie Ray II    3100         Cline Marcus Russell   3100
 Cox James Cooper Jr    1310         Cox Philip Allen       1110
 Cresposalgado Alberto  5100         Dambra Adam Joseph     1170
 Davis Wesley John      1800         Decorte Preston Ronnie 3100
 Deghelder Ryan Patrick 1810         Domenicone Stephen Jam 1310
 Donerson Satrice Angel 2900         Donnellon Joseph Steph 1310
 Doyle Ryan Taylor      5100         Dulaney Sean Michael   1160
 Duong Khoi Dinh        1320         Edwards David Keith    2900
 Elizaldevalencia Adria 1200         Emry Gregory M         1110
 Evans Shannon Lynn     2900         Federoff Carl James    1310
 Fidrych Christopher Mi 1130         Fish Aaron Brolin      3100
 Foley John Paul        2500         Friddle Jessica Ann    2300
 Fugate Marshall Jay Jr 1110         Furr Nathan E          1110
 Gannon Brian Patrick   1810         Gemme Jacqueline Marie 2900
 Gomez Raymond Pete     1320         Goodwin Justin Bradfor 1810
 Graybosch Benjamin Tho 1110         Gregory Lonsdale Findl 1320
 Hamilton Angela Renee  1200         Haney Kellie Jo        2900
 Henry Thomas Michael   2900         Howell Matthew Adam    1830
 Hume Michael Scott     1110         Hylton Hensley George  3100
 Jaybush Kiera Marie    3100         Jensen Larsen Alan     1130
 Jobski Rick Lee Jr     1310         Kagehiro Christopher R 1120
 Klinkhammer Edwin Kyle 1110         Kretchman Allison Ann  2900
 Kvinsland Jacquelyn Me 3100         Lachenmaier Timothy Ro 1310
 Larenas Emma Rachele   3100         Laws David Michael     3100
 Leber Amy              2300         Lemke Daniel O         1110
 Martinez Anthony Trevo 3100         McCartney Stephen Dani 1110
 McKinney James Russell 1310         McLean Brian Joseph    5100
 McMonagle Brendan J    1110         Millar Michael James   1810
 Morr Jory Scott        3100         Morris Matthew Michael 1110
 Munson Garold Ivan     1120         Nguyen Peter Anhphuc   2900
 Nottberg Adam N        1110         Oconnor Nora A         1110
 Odonnell Dianna Cannon 2900         Pasteur Don            5100
 Patton Kevin Michael   1310         Peterson Erik Michael  1310
 Powers John Edward     1310         Prunera Jeffrey M      1650
 Pudas Kevin James      1830         Qiu Alexia Marie       2900
 Ratajack Elliot Blake  1310         Reimer Beau James      1810
 Reschmeier Werner Rudo 1110         Rivers William Mason J 1110
 Rosholt Stephanie Meli 2900         Routley Robert Damon   3100
 Samulis Scott Christop 1110         Schwartz Michael John  1310
 Scott Arcelius         1110         Shaw Jason Patrick     1520
 Shirley Ranjan Arun    2300         Shrader Jared Allen    1110
 Siepker Alison         2300         Smith Bryce Russell    1110
 Spencer Jeffery Scott  1310         Starling Amy Lauren    2900
 Stotz Andrew Joseph    1310         Sullivan Brian Edward  1120
 Sweat Maria Lour       2900         Tarescavage Michael An 1110
 Thompson Jeremiah Char 2300         Trestyanszki Krisztian 1830
 Upham Jacob Eli        1110         Vincent Brigitta Lee   2900
 Virginia Richard Antho 1830         Vonweller Elliott Lawr 1210
 Westman Kyle Robert    1310         Wheeler Gayle Duane Jr 1320
 White Rachel Susannah  2900         Williams Emily Victori 1110
 Wise Oliver James      5100         Wittig John Rudolph Jr 1210
 Womer John Kenneth     1220         York Jeffrey Edward    1110
 Young Erica Elizabeth  1110         Zoch Shannon Michael   1810

           Limited Duty Officer Promotion to Lieutenant  No officers promoted 
in this category.
         Permanent Promotion to Chief Warrant Officer, W-5
                    DOR/Eff Date 1 August 2013
 Guile Roderick Zane    7131         Pryor Reginald Dernard 7421
         Permanent Promotion to Chief Warrant Officer, W-4  No officers 
promoted in this category.
         Permanent Promotion to Chief Warrant Officer, W-3  No officers 
promoted in this category.

2.  If a selected officer does not decline his or her promotion in writing 
prior to his or her projected date of rank (noted above in paragraph 1), that 
officer is considered to have accepted the promotion on the date indicated.  
An officer who chooses to decline his or her promotion must submit the 
declination in writing to COMNAVPERSCOM (PERS-831), prior to the effective 
date indicated above.

3.  The Commanding Officer, the Secretary of the Navy or his designee has the 
authority to delay projected appointments.  Upon the exercise of a delay, the 
officer shall be notified in writing before the effective date of the 
appointment, and not be tendered the appointment.  The delay authority will 
immediately forward the recommendation to delay with supporting documentation 
to COMNAVPERSCOM (PERS-83), copy to COMNAVPERSCOM (PERS-831).

4.  Prepare NAVPERS form 1421/7 (rev 02-13).  Use this NAVADMIN as ref (a).  
Use Title 10 U.S.C., section 624 as ref (b) for lieutenants and above.  Use 
Title 10 U.S.C., section 578 as ref (b) for chief warrant officers.  Mail the 
completed form to COMNAVPERSCOM (PERS-831).

5.  Officers should review OPNAVINST 1811.3A for minimum time in grade 
requirements for purposes of voluntary retirement.  Full Time Support 
officers and those officers temporarily on active duty anticipating release 
from active duty under SECNAVINST 1920.6C may accept promotion without 
incurring any additional active duty obligation.

6.  New photographs are required for all officers within three months after 
acceptance of promotion.  See MILPERSMAN 1070-180 for specific requirements.

7.  Released by Vice Admiral S. R. Van Buskirk, N1.//

BT
#4260
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//

