UNCLASSIFIED//
ROUTINE
R 191728Z OCT 15
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC
BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 240/15

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/OCT//

SUBJ/FY-16 AVIATION COMMAND RETENTION BONUS//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN announces the continuation of the Aviation Command 
Retention Bonus (ACRB) in FY-16 for both Active Component (AC) and Full Time 
Support (FTS).  The ACRB is designed to retain those aviation officers with 
the talent and command experience in critical warfighting mission areas.  
These O-5 commanding officers (CO) lead our naval aviation force today, and 
their skill set and leadership experience are essential to our Navys success 
in the future.

2.  All officers in command of eligible units are encouraged to apply.  
Prospective COs become eligible to apply for the ACRB on the day they take 
command; eligibility to apply ends on the officers last day in command of the 
eligible unit.  All eligible officers will be offered $36,000, paid in two 
installments of $18,000, in return for a commitment to remain on active duty 
as a naval aviator or naval flight officer through the end of their 22nd year 
of commissioned service, or for two years from the date of contract approval, 
whichever is later.

3.  For specific details, eligibility, and application procedures visit the 
applicable Naval Personnel Command websites: For AC:  
http://www.public.navy.mil/bupers-
npc/officer/Detailing/aviation/OCM/Pages/ACCP.aspx.
For FTS:  http://www.public.navy.mil/bupers-
npc/officer/Detailing/fulltimesupport/Pages/Aviation.aspx.

4.  Points of contact for AC are Ms. Melinda Weeden at (901) 874-3964/DSN 882 
or via e-mail at melinda.weeden(at)navy.mil; Mr. Paul Boundy at (901) 874-
3947/DSN 882 or via e-mail at paul.boundy(at)navy.mil; and the ACCP Program 
Manager at (901) 874-3484/DSN 882 or via e-mail at acipandaccp(at)navy.mil.

5.  Points of contact for FTS are LCDR Justin Collins at (901) 874-3605/DSN 
882 or via e-mail at justin.collins(at)navy.mil; and LCDR Drew Helmreich at 
(901) 874-4146/DSN 882 or via e-mail at drew.helmreich(at)navy.mil.

6.  This NAVADMIN will remain in effect until superseded or canceled, 
whichever occurs first.

7.  Released by Vice Admiral W. F. Moran, N1.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
