UNCLASSIFIED
ROUTINE
R 101423Z NOV 16
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC
BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 249/16

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N2N6BC/NOV//

SUBJ/FISCAL YEAR 2017 CYBERSECURITY AWARENESS TRAINING//

REF/A/MSG/CNO/152009ZAPR16//
REF/B/DOC/SECNAVINST 5239.3C/02MAY16//
REF/C/DOC/CNO/261702ZJUL16//
NARR/ REF A IS NAVADMIN 087/16 PROVIDING GUIDANCE FOR THE FY16 CYBERSECURITY 
AWARENESS TRAINING. REF B IS THE SECNAV INSTRUCTION DON CYBERSECURITY POLICY 
WHICH ESTABLISHES DEPARTMENT OF THE NAVY POLICY FOR CYBERSECURITY. REF C IS 
THE FISCAL YEAR 2017 GENERAL MILITARY TRAINING SCHEDULE NAVADMIN 166/16//
POC/ANDREJ STARE/CIV/OPNAV N2N6BC/-/TEL: (571) 256-8284/EMAIL: 
ANDREJ.STARE(AT)NAVY.MIL//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN supersedes reference (a) and provides guidance for 
fiscal year 2017 (FY17) Cybersecurity (CS) awareness training requirement.  
Defense Information Systems Agency (DISA) released version 4 (V4) of the 
cyber awareness training. V4 training allows the user to select either 
Department of Defense (DoD) employee or Intelligence Community (IC) version 
for training.  Additionally, V4 includes an introduction discussion on the 
current CS concerns and the types of cyber-attacks in the news, a new 
interactive challenge for identity management, removable media, and securing 
government furnished equipment.

2. Per reference b and c, Navy military, civilians, and contractors with 
access limited to Unclassified or Secret networks must complete the DoD 
employee version of DoD Cyber Awareness Challenge (CAC).  Navy military, 
civilians, and contractors with access to Sensitive Compartmented Information 
must complete the IC version of the DoD CAC training vice the employee 
version.

3.  Personnel who have already completed DoD CAC version 3 or DoD IC CAC 
version 2 for FY17 General Military Training (GMT) as of the date of this 
message have satisfied the GMT requirement and do not have to complete CAC V4 
or DoD IC CAC V4.  All remaining Navy personnel (military, civilians, and 
contractors), in order to satisfy the FY17 GMT requirements, must complete 
CAC V4, either DoD employee or IC version as applicable, by 30 September 
2017.

4.  Authorized methods for training delivery:
a. Total Workforce Management Service (TWMS),
https://twms.navy.mil/selfservice/login.asp;
b. Navy e-Learning (NEL),
https://nel.navy.mil (Note: the Navy Knowledge Online portal, https:/
/www.nko.navy.mil/group/general-skills-training/gmt will also redirect users 
to the NEL link);
c. DISA Website,
http://iatraining.disa.mil/eta/cyberchallenge_v4/launchPage.htm;
d. Other approved training sources, DISA Digital Video Discs (DVDs).

5.  Ships can access the annual training from the NEL application hosted on 
the Navy Information/Application Product Suite (NIAPS) server, eliminating 
the need to reach back to shore hosted NEL websites.  The DOD CAC V4 (DoD 
employee and IC) course are available via the NEL Afloat Learning Management 
System (LMS) Pub Amendment 103 for download by the NIAPS Administrator using 
the normal manual NIAPS distance support Update process.  If unable to 
download LMS Pub Amendment 103, ships can request a DVD with these files be 
mailed by submitting a support request to Navy 311. Additionally, DoD CAC V4 
(DoD employee and IC) on DVD will be available for online order from DISA.  
To pre-order now, download and submit a DoD Information assurance Training 
and Awareness Product order form from
http://iasecontent.disa.mil/eta/products_order_form.pdf.  Include a written 
note in the comments section to ask for "Cyber Awareness Challenge" Version
4.0 CDs, when available.

6.  Although CS awareness training is an individual responsibility, 
Commanders and Commanding Officers are accountable for 100 percent 
certification of their personnel.  Training officers are responsible for 
ensuring their personnel complete the required training, meanwhile the 
Information System Security Manager (ISSM) is responsible for reporting 
compliance to meet Federal Information Security Modernization Act of 2014 
requirements.

7.  Command training officers must validate training via the TWMS or Fleet 
Training Management and Planning System (FLTMPS) 
(https://ntmpsweb.ncdc.navy.mil/Fltmps/) authoritative database.  Training 
officers will manually record training completed via the DISA website, 
lectures by the ISSM, or DISA DVDs in FLTMPS using the Learning Event 
Completion Form.  Report any discrepancies to the Navy Training Management 
Planning System Operational Support office at ntmps.support(AT)navy.mil or 
1-866-438-2898/DSN 922-1867.

8.  Echelon II training officers are responsible for maintaining a list of 
personnel who have fulfilled the training requirement in addition to  
compiling data in TWMS for their respective area of responsibility.  The 
command ISSM will recommend the disablement of accounts for users who fail to 
complete the training by 30 September 2017.

9.  This NAVADMIN will remain in effect until cancelled or superseded.

10.  Released by VADM Jan E. Tighe, Deputy Chief of Naval Operations for 
Information Warfare, OPNAV N2N6.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
