UNCLASSIFIED

ROUTINE

R 271706Z DEC 17

FM CNO WASHINGTON DC

TO NAVADMIN

INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC

BT
UNCLAS
PASS TO OFFICE CODES:
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N2N6//
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N2N6//

NAVADMIN 314/17

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N2N6/DEC//

SUBJ/FISCAL YEAR 2018 CYBERSECURITY AWARENESS CHALLENGE//

REF/A/MSG/CNO WASHINGTON DC/101423ZNOV16//

REF/B/DOC/SECNAVINST 5239.3C/2MAY16//

REF/C/MSG/CNO WASHINGTON DC/281648ZAUG17//

NARR/REF A IS NAVADMIN 249/16 PROVIDING GUIDANCE FOR THE FISCAL YEAR
2017 (FY17) CYBERSECURITY AWARENESS TRAINING.  REF B IS THE SECRETARY NAVY 
INSTRUCTION DEPARTMENT OF THE NAVY (DON) CYBERSECURITY POLICY WHICH 
ESTABLISHES DON POLICY FOR CYBERSECURITY.  REF C IS NAVADMIN 210/17, GENERAL 
MILITARY TRAINING REQUIREMENTS WITH NAVY CIVILIAN TRAINING GUIDANCE// 
POC/VIEIRA/CIV/OPNAV N2N6G11/-/TEL: (703) 695-7809 /EMAIL:
MICHAEL.VIEIRA(AT)NAVY.MIL//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN supersedes reference (a) and provides guidance for the 
FY18 Cybersecurity Awareness training requirement.  The Defense Information 
Systems Agency (DISA) has released Cyber Awareness Challenge 2018 (also 
referred to as CAC version 5).

2.  Per references (b) and (c), Navy personnel, civilians, and contractors 
with access to Unclassified or Secret networks must complete the Department 
of Defense (DoD) employee version of the Cyber Awareness Challenge (CAC).  
Navy personnel, civilians, and contractors with access to Sensitive 
Compartmented Information must complete the Intelligence Community (IC) 
version of the CAC.

3.  Personnel who have already completed CAC version 4, either DoD employee 
or IC version as applicable, for FY18 General Military Training (GMT) after 1 
October 2017 have satisfied the GMT requirement and do not have to complete 
CAC 2018.  All remaining Navy personnel (military personnel, civilians, and 
contractors), must complete the CAC 2018, either DoD employee or IC versions 
as applicable, by 30 September 2018 in order to satisfy the FY18 CAC GMT 
requirement.

4.  Authorized methods for training delivery:
    a.  Total Workforce Management Service (TWMS), 
https://twms.navy.mil/selfservice/login.asp;
    b.  Navy e-Learning (NEL), https://learning.nel.navy.mil
(Note: the Navy My Navy Portal, https://www.MNP.navy.mil/group/general
-skills-training/gmt will also redirect users to the NEL link)
    c.  DISA Website, https://iatraining.disa.mil/eta/disa_cac2018
/launchPage.htm
    d.  Other approved training sources, DISA Digital Video Discs (DVDs).

5.  Ships can access the annual training from the NEL application hosted on 
the Navy Information/Application Product Suite (NIAPS) server, eliminating 
the need to reach back to shore hosted NEL websites.  The CAC 2018 (DoD 
employee and IC) courses are available via the NEL Afloat Learning Management 
System Pub Amendment 112 for download by the NIAPS Administrator using the 
normal manual NIAPS distance support update process.  If unable to download 
Learning Management System Pub Amendment 112, ships can request a DVD with 
these files to be mailed by submitting a support request to Navy 311.  
Additionally, CAC 2018 (DoD employee and IC) on DVD are available from DISA.  
To pre-order, download, and submit a DoD Information Assurance Training and 
Awareness Product order form from 
http://iasecontent.disa.mil/eta/products_order_form.pdf.  Include a written 
note in the comments section to ask for "Cyber Awareness Challenge" Version 
5.0 CDs, when available.

6.  Although Cybersecurity Awareness training is an individual 
responsibility, commanders and commanding officers are accountable for 100 
percent certification of their personnel.  Training officers are responsible 
for ensuring their personnel complete and properly document the required 
training, meanwhile the Information System Security Manager (ISSM) is 
responsible for reporting compliance to meet Federal Information Security 
Modernization Act of 2014 requirements.

7.  Command training officers must validate training via TWMS or Fleet 
Training Management and Planning System (FLTMPS) (https:/
/ntmpsweb.ncdc.navy.mil/Fltmps/) authoritative database.  Training officers 
will manually record training completed via the DISA website, or DISA DVDs in 
FLTMPS using the Learning Event Completion Form.  Report any discrepancies to 
the Navy Training Management Planning System Operational Support office at 
ntmps.support(AT)navy.mil or 1-866-438-2898/DSN 922-1867.

8.  Echelon II training officers are responsible for maintaining a list of 
personnel who have fulfilled the training requirement in addition to 
compiling data in TWMS for their respective area of responsibility.  The 
command ISSM will disable accounts of users who do not complete the training 
by 30 September 2018.

9.  This NAVADMIN will remain in effect until cancelled or superseded.

10.  Released by VADM Jan E. Tighe, Deputy Chief of Naval Operations for 
Information Warfare, OPNAV N2N6.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
