UNCLASSIFIED/

ROUTINE

R 051641Z MAY 15

FM CNO WASHINGTON DC

TO NAVADMIN

INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC

NAVADMIN 109/15

BT
UNCLAS

SUBJ/SEPTEMBER 2015 (CYCLE 228) NAVY-WIDE PETTY OFFICER (E4-E6) ADVANCEMENT 
EXAMINATIONS FOR USN, USNR (ACTIVE), FULL TIME SUPPORT, AND CANVASSER 
RECRUITER SAILORS (CORRECTED COPY)// 

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/MAY// INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//

REF/A/DOC/BUPERS/2NOV07//

REF/B/MSG/SECNAV WASHINGTON DC/052044ZMAR13//

REF/C/MSG/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/252221ZJUN10//

REF/D/MSG/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/131544ZDEC07//

REF/E/DOC/DOD/1AUG2012//

NARR/REF A IS BUPERSINST 1430.16F, ADVANCEMENT MANUAL FOR ENLISTED PERSONNEL 
OF THE U.S. NAVY AND U.S. NAVY RESERVE.  REF B IS ALNAV 015/13, PERSONNEL 
SECURITY INVESTIGATION SUBMISSION REQUIREMENTS.
REF C IS NAVADMIN 215/10, PERFORMANCE EVALUATION AND ADVANCEMENT GUIDANCE FOR 
INDIVIDUAL AUGMENTEE SAILORS.  REF D IS NAVADMIN 336/07, ADMINISTRATION OF 
THE NAVY-WIDE ADVANCEMENT EXAM FOR SAILORS IN IRAQ, AFGHANISTAN, AND THE HORN 
OF AFRICA. REF E IS DOD INSTRUCTION 1000.30, REDUCTION OF SOCIAL SECURITY 
NUMBER (SSN) USE WITHIN DOD.//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN announces the September 2015 (Cycle 228) Navy-Wide 
Advancement Examination (NWAE) for advancement in rate of U.S. Navy (USN), 
U.S. Navy Reserve (USNR) (Active), Full Time Support (FTS), and Canvasser 
Recruiter Sailors.
    a.  Exam dates are:
        E6 - 3 September 2015
        E5 - 10 September 2015
        E4 - 17 September 2015
    b.  In addition to the requirements of reference (a), chapter 6, 
Educational Services Officers (ESO) must also follow the pre-exam 
requirements in the exam verbatim located at 
https://www.nko.navy.mil/group/navy-advancement-center.

2.  Eligibility Requirements.  Advancement candidate eligibility requirements 
are found in reference (a), with the following information specific only to 
Cycle 228:
    a.  The terminal eligibility date used to compute time-in-rate
(TIR) is 1 January 2016.
    b.  The minimum TIR date must be on or before:
        E6 - 1 January 2013
        E5 - 1 January 2015
        E4 - 1 July 2015
    c.  E6 candidates with an approved TIR waiver must have a TIR of
1 January 2014 or earlier.
    d.  High year tenure (HYT) date or approved HYT waiver must be on or 
after 1 January 2016.
    e.  Candidates in a rating requiring a security clearance must have a 
favorable investigation adjudication issued by Department of Defense Central 
Adjudication Facility or have a commanding officer's interim clearance 
granted before 1 September 2015.  Sailors in the following ratings must, at a 
minimum, maintain continuous security clearance eligibility for this cycle:
AC, AE, AG, AO, ATI, ATO, AWF, AWO, AWR, AWS, AWV, AZ, CTI, CTM, CTN, CTR, 
CTT, EOD, ET, FC, FT, GM, HT, IC, IS, IT, ITS, LN, MA, MC, MN, MT, ND, OS, 
QM, SB, SO, STG, STS, and YN, as well as all nuclear and submarine ratings.  
Refer to reference (b), for additional guidance.
    f.  Change*of-rate must be approved and retention approvals must be 
completed before the candidate's scheduled exam date.  This includes 
approvals from Navy Personnel Command, "A" schools, career waypoints (CWAY), 
etc.
    g.  Compute performance mark average (PMA) using all evaluations in the 
candidate's current rank with an ending date that falls within the following 
time periods:
        E4 exam - 1 January 2015 to 31 August 2015
        E5 exam - 1 June 2014 to 31 August 2015
        E6 exam - 1 September 2012 to 31 August 2015
    h.  For additional guidance on computing PMA, refer to reference (a), 
chapter 3.  For PMA guidance for individual augmentee (IA) Sailors refer to 
reference (c).
    i.  CWAY:  Sailors who have received a "Denied Final - Active"
from CWAY as of the June 2015 application rack and stack (results released in 
July 2015) are ineligible and shall not be administered Cycle 228 NWAE.

3.  Exam Ordering.
    a.  Deploying commands can order exams up to six months prior to the 
scheduled exam date.  Refer to reference (d), for IA Sailors.
    b.  CTI/CTN/CTR sensitive compartmented information (SCI) exam web 
ordering dates can be found on the Navy Enlisted Advancement System (NEAS) 
website at https://neasos.cnet.navy.mil.
        (1) ESOs must verify TIR eligibility lists on the NEAS website for 
initial exam ordering.
        (2) Additional exams are ordered via message or in message format via 
e-mail to sfly_cryptologic.products(at)navy.mil following the guidelines of 
reference (a), chapter 4.  Commands must include their Department of Defense 
Activity Address Code account number, point of contact (POC), and the number 
of exams required.  Commands requesting the forwarding of exams should 
include the forwarding command as an info addressee on the message.  The 
deadline for additional orders is 29 June 2015.  The deadline for SCI 
substitute exam orders is 28 September 2015.
    c.  Exam web ordering for non-SCI exams begins 25 May 2015.
ESOs must verify TIR eligibility lists on the NEAS website during the 
following time periods:
        (1)  Initial TIR lists will be available:
             E6 - 25 May 2015 to 30 June 2015
             E5 - 25 May 2015 to 9 July 2015
             E4 - 25 May 2015 to 16 July 2015
        (2)  Additional TIR lists will be available:
             E6 - 1 July 2015 to 23 July 2015
             E5 - 10 July 2015 to 30 July 2015
             E4 - 17 July 2015 to 6 August 2015
        (3)  Exams required after the TIR lists have closed are ordered via 
message or in message format via e-mail to sfly_N321_exam_order(at)navy.mil 
following the guidelines of reference (a), chapter 4.  Ensure a POC is 
included in the message.
    d.  Commands must select the appropriate examinations (i.e., NCC/NCR, 
ATI/ATO, ET/ETV/ETR, etc.).
    e.  Substitute exams should be kept to a minimum.  Naval Education and 
Training Professional Development and Technology Center (NETPDTC) is the 
approval authority for all substitute exams.
Deadline for ordering substitute examinations is 2 October 2015.
    f.  ESOs must verify the examination order at the "View Previous Exam 
Orders" link via NEAS within 14 days of placing the order.
    g.  USN candidates in the following ratings are separated into the 
following competing groups:
        (1) CS, LS, and YN
            Group 1 * Submarine
            Group 2 - All others
        (2) CTI
            Group 1 - Middle East/North Africa
            Group 2 - East/Far East
            Group 3 - Latin/South America
            Group 4 - Eastern Europe
        (3) EMN, ETN, and MMN
            Group 1 * Submarine
            Group 2 * Surface
            Group 3 * Training
        (4) FC
            Group 1 - Non-AEGIS
            Group 2 - AEGIS

4.  Exam Administration and Answer Sheet Returns.
    a.  Refer to the exam verbatim for exam administration and answer sheet 
return instructions.
    b.  ESO must check the exam tote board on the NEAS website at 
https://neasos.cnet.navy.mil/neas/public/toteboard.aspx often to ensure 
answer sheets have been received and processed.  Answer sheets that are in 
error will not be counted until they are processed successfully.
    c.  Substitute examinations must be administered within seven days of 
receipt.
    d.  A detailed discrepancy list will be maintained on the NEAS website.  
For guidance on correcting discrepancies, refer to reference (a), chapter 7.  
In addition to processing discrepancy corrections via letter or message, 
NETPDTC will also accept discrepancy corrections by encrypted e-mail.
    e.  Per reference (e), NWAE correspondence for advancement Cycle
228 and all future exam cycles must be processed using the Department of 
Defense Identification Number.  Correspondence sent to the Advancement Center 
with the candidate*s SSN cannot be processed.

5.  Exam Results.
    a.  E4-E6 results will be provided via BUPERS On-Line to authorized 
command representatives prior to release of profile sheets.
    b.  Commands are directed to verify the Examination Status Verification 
Report for accuracy before frocking and/or advancement of E4-E6 candidates.
    c.  Individual Sailors may view/download their profile sheet at the 
"Profile Sheets" link on the Navy Knowledge Online (NKO) Navy Advancement 
Center website under the Career Management link.

6.  Any additional information regarding this cycle will be posted on the 
NEAS website.

7.  Points of contact:
    a.  NPC Customer Service Center at 866-U-ASK-NPC/866-827-5672 or via e-
mail at uasknpc(at)navy.mil.
    b.  For SCI exam questions and orders, 850-473-5874/5867/DSN 753 or via 
sfly_cryptologic.products(at)navy.mil.
    c.  For exam orders, records, and discrepancies, 850-473-6148/DSN 753 or 
via sfly_N321_exam_order@navy.mil or sfly_N321_discrepanc@navy.mil.

8.  For further information (Exam Verbatim, Advancement Manual, and other 
related documents), visit the NKO website at 
https://www.nko.navy.mil/group/navy-advancement-center.

9.  This NAVADMIN will remain in effect until superseded or canceled, 
whichever occurs first.

10.  Released by Vice Admiral W. F. Moran, N1.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
