UNCLASSIFIED

ROUTINE

R 211645Z APR 15

FM CNO WASHINGTON DC

TO NAVADMIN

INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC

BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 092/15

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N2N6/MAR//

SUBJ/STIPULATIONS FOR USING NAVY MOBILE DEVICES (SMART PHONE/TABLETS)

REF/A/DOC/DON CIO/17APR15//

REF/B/DOC/DON CIO Memo/30JAN09//

REF/C/MSG/DON CIO/031648ZOCT11//

REF/D/MSG/DON/032009ZOCT08//

REF/E/DOC/APPLE iOS 8 Interim Guidance/18SEP14//

REF/F/DOC/DON CIO MEMO/02SEP05

REF/G/DOC/DOD CIO DIRECTIVE/ DoDD 8100.02/14APR04 POC/ANDREA ST. 
JOHN/CIV/OPNAV N2N6BC1/TEL:  (571) 256-8512/EMAIL:  
ANDREA.STJOHN(AT)NAVY.MIL//

AMPN/Reference (a) is Department of the Navy Chief Information Office 
memorandum, Approval of Good Mobility Mobile Computing (UGMMC) V2.  Reference 
(b) is Department of Navy (DON) Chief Information Officer Memorandum 01-09, 
Information Assurance Policy for Platform Information Technology (IT).  
Reference (c) is the Acceptable Use Policy for DON IT Resources.  Reference 
(d) provides the policy updates for personal electronic devices (PED) 
security and application of email signature and encryption.  Reference (e) 
lists all required security controls for the iOS 8 operating system. 
Reference (f) stipulates that that all IT that receives, processes, stores, 
displays, or transmits DoD information will be acquired, configured, 
operated, maintained, and disposed of consistent with applicable DoD 
cybersecurity policies, standards, and architectures. Reference (g) is 
Department of Defense Directive that establishes policy and assigns 
responsibilities for the use of commercial wireless devices, services, and 
technologies in the DoD Global Information Grid.

RMKS:/1.  This NAVADMIN provides information and guidance on the use of 
government issued mobility devices in support of the advancement of 
information technology wireless services on the Navy Marine-Corps Intranet 
(NMCI).

2.  Mobility is transforming how the Navy operates, connects, and supports 
our personnel and the fleet.  To meet this growing demand the Naval 
Enterprise Networks (NEN) program office (PMW-205) has implemented a mobile 
solution to meet operational needs while complying with architectural and 
security requirements to protect the Navy enterprise.  This new service 
initially supports iPhone 5s/6 running iOS 8.  Android and newer iPhone/iOS 
versions will be supported as they are released and certified for operation 
on the NMCI network.  Information, processes, and user guides/acknowledgement 
are available at https://www.homeport.navy.mil/services/mobile/.

3.  New devices will use a Good Technology (trademark) container to securely 
segregate official data from personal data, thereby providing users the 
ability to perform government work and personal activities securely and 
effectively on the same device per U.S. Navy policies on acceptable use of 
government IT.  Mobile device configuration, security settings, and policy 
enforcement will be managed using Good Technology (trademark) mobile device 
management software and equipment installed on NMCI.

4.  The improved service will be available to users who are approved by their 
local command and can be ordered as a standard wireless device update through 
the command's contract technical representative (CTR) or the command*s 
wireless account manager.  Existing blackberry capabilities will continue to 
be supported until end of life or full transition to iOS and Android devices.

5.  Per reference (a), the following stipulations apply.
    a.  Use of personally owned devices is not authorized.
    b.  Program Manager (PM) shall enable TouchID, ensuring it is only used 
to access the native (non-secure) persona of the device. The additional 
password requirements to access the Good container minimizes the risk of 
access to DoD information.  Further, on devices without TouchID the PM shall 
retain the passcode minimum of four alphanumeric characters to authenticate 
to the native (non-secure) persona of the device.
    c.  Access to the Good Container will be controlled via a minimum eight 
character passcode containing alpha/numeric and special characters.
    d.  Commands and users are responsible for adhering to all applicable 
physical security requirements for portable electronic devices in command 
spaces.
    e.  The camera will be turned on by default, with the option to have it 
turned off per individual or as directed at the command level.  Cameras on 
Government Furnished Equipment devices will be subject to wireless security 
restrictions imposed by the facility in which the device is being operated 
per reference (f).  Cellular/PCS and/or other RF or Infrared (IR) wireless 
devices shall not be allowed into an area where classified information is 
discussed or processed without written approval from the DAA in consultation 
with the Cognizant Security Authority (CSA) Certified TEMPEST Technical 
Authority (CTTA) per reference (g).
    f.  Non-work applications may be installed only outside the Good 
Container and may only be acquired from the iTunes/Google app stores.  Users 
are responsible for all charges and installations of personally desired 
applications and data installed on the non-secure portion of the device.

6.  DoD Instruction 8520.02 requires all Department of Defense (DoD) 
information systems, including networks and email, be enabled to use DoD-
issued public key infrastructure certificates in order to support 
authentication, access control, confidentiality, data integrity, and non-
repudiation.  DON users shall digitally sign all email messages with 
attachments, active content, or which require either message integrity or 
non-repudiation verification.  Email messages containing sensitive 
information shall be encrypted.  Transmission of email (i.e. create, forward, 
reply, and reply all) that should be either signed or encrypted without 
applying digital signature or encryption is prohibited, regardless of 
technical limitations of the desktop or handheld device being used.

7.  Additional capabilities will be released on NMCI Homeport at 
https://www.homeport.navy.mil/services/mobile/ and other NENs when available 
and within operational priorities.

8.  Released by VADM Ted N. Branch, OPNAV N2N6.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
