UNCLASSIFIED//
ROUTINE
R 271314Z APR 15
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC
BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 096/15

SUBJ/FY-16 2 TEST PILOT SCHOOL SELECTION BOARD//

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/APR//
REF/A/DOC/BUPERS/5OCT10//
AMPN/REF A IS BUPERSINST 1500.62B, TEST PILOT SCHOOLS.//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN announces convening of the U.S. Naval Test Pilot 
School (USNTPS) selection board on 22 July 2015.  This board will select 
highly qualified Naval Aviators and Naval Flight Officers (NFO) for USNTPS, 
the U.S. Air Force Test Pilot School (USAFTPS), and the Empire Test Pilot 
School (ETPS).  The Naval Postgraduate School/USNTPS cooperative program will 
not be offered during this board or in the near future.

2.  To be eligible for board consideration, a command endorsed application, 
per reference (a), must be received at the Navy Personnel Command (NPC) 
Customer Service Center (CSC) not later than 15 June 2015.  The command 
endorsement shall address whether the applicant, if selected, will be allowed 
and available to report for initial training as early as October 2015.  The 
service member’s e-mail address(es), phone number(s), college transcripts, 
and post-test squadron assignment preferences must be included with the 
application.

3.  Application package submissions:
    a.  Applications may be sent via U.S. Postal Service to the following 
address:

    Navy Personnel Command
    FY-16 2 Test Pilot School Selection Board (Board #380)
    Customer Service Center (PERS-1)
    5720 Integrity Drive
    Millington, TN 38055

    b.  Applications sent via FEDEX/UPS/DHL should use the following address: 

    Navy Personnel Command
    FY-16 2 Test Pilot School Selection Board (Board #380)
    Customer Service Center (PERS-1)
    5640 Ticonderoga Loop, Bldg 768, RM E302
    Millington, TN 38055 

    c.  PDF submissions in advance of hardcopy will be accepted for
    those applicants who have exhausted all other means of delivery.
    E-mail encrypted PDF submissions to cscselboard(at)navy.mil.

4.  Applicants should confirm receipt of their application package and all 
correspondence by selecting the customer service link at
https://ahdsedstws16.ahf.nmci.navy.mil/oa_html/npc.html or by calling the NPC 
CSC at 866-U-ASK-NPC (DSN 882-5672).

5.  Eligibility:
    a.  Designated Naval Aviators and NFOs through the grade of lieutenant 
commander are eligible for selection (1310, 1320, 1510).
    b.  The preferred unrestricted line (URL, 13X0) aviators are junior 
officers (O-2 or O-3) with detailer-forecasted career timing to complete the 
selected TPS program and at least a 24 to 36 month follow-on test tour prior 
to their expected department head tour. If there are not enough qualified 
junior officers to meet requirements, lieutenant commanders with exceptional 
records may be selected, provided they can meet applicable career milestones.
    c.  Aerospace engineering duty officer (1510) aviators through the grade 
of lieutenant commander may be selected if able to serve a 24 to 36 month 
follow-on test tour and still meet career milestones.
    d.  Applicants determined to have insufficient career timing may have 
their application removed from consideration.

6.  Applicants should periodically check for updates and additional 
information at the TPS board website at http://www.public.navy.mil/
bupers-npc/boards/administrative/testpilot/Pages/default.aspx.

7.  Point of contacts are CDR Eric Gardner, PERS-434B, via e-mail at
eric.m.gardner(at)navy.mil or Mrs. Shirley Murphy, PERS-434B1, via e-mail at 
filisa.murphy(at)navy.mil.

8.  This message will remain in effect until superseded or canceled, 
whichever comes first.

9.  Released by Vice Admiral W. F. Moran, N1.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
