UNCLASSIFIED//

ROUTINE

R 142009Z OCT 14 PSN 849622H31

FM CNO WASHINGTON DC

TO NAVADMIN

BT
UNCLAS

SUBJ/NAVY ATTACHE PROGRAM

NAVADMIN 239/14

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/XX/XXX//

REF/A/DOC/OPNAVINST 1301.11/19AUG14//

REF/B/DOC/SECNAVINST 1300.16/29OCT13//

REF/C/DOC/MILPERSMAN 1301-207/18SEP12//

REF/D/DOC/MILPERSMAN 1306-914/16MAR05//

REF/E/MSG/ALNAV 074/13/301909Z OCT13//
POC/PATRICK DRAUDE/CDR/OPNAV N2N6IX1/-/TEL:  (703) 695-8994
/EMAIL:  PATRICK.DRAUDE(AT)NAVY.MIL//

NARR/Reference (a) is Chief of Naval Operations Implementation Plan for 
reference (b).  Reference (b) is prescribing policy and publishing guidance 
governing Department of the Navy support to the Defense Attach* Service 
(DAS).  Reference (c) is MILPERSMAN article providing information on 
candidate application and selection criteria.  Reference (d) is MILPERSMAN 
article providing information on enlisted candidate application and selection 
criteria.  Reference (e) is a SECNAV message promoting Navy participation in 
the DAS.//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN announces the promulgation of reference (a) and 
promotes service within the DAS for Navy personnel.

2.  In October 2013, SECNAV promulgated reference (b) emphasizing the 
critical importance of the DAS program and a desire to ensure that only the 
best and most highly qualified Navy officers and enlisted personnel are 
selected to represent the Navy to the foreign service and foreign militaries.  
Accordingly, a more robust screening and selection process is now in place 
with all positions now requiring multiple candidates. SECNAV now serves as 
the final approval authority for the nomination to the Defense Intelligence 
Agency (DIA) for naval attach* positions.

3.  Critically important, demanding, and exciting opportunities at Defense 
Attach* Offices (DAOS) in embassies worldwide are available to those who meet 
the selection criteria of references (c) and (d).
    a.  Over the next year, among other billets, Navy attach* affairs
    will screen for attach* positions in Australia, Brazil, Finland,
    Mexico, and the Philippines.
    b.  In addition, exceptional Limited Duty Officer/Chief Warrant
    Officer and enlisted personnel will be able to screen for
    Operations coordinator (OPSCO) and operations assistant (OPSASST)
    Position in Argentina, France, India, Greece, and Japan.

4.  To demonstrate the importance SECNAV places on duty at DAOS as discussed 
in reference (e), procedures are now in place at Navy Personnel Command (NPC) 
to expand the eligibility for DAOS assignments and increase awareness of DAOS 
opportunities.  NPC will recognize DAOS service through statutory promotion 
board precepts.  Additionally, these tours frequently offer language 
training, foreign language proficiency pay, and special duty assignment pay 
for enlisted personnel.

5.  For additional information about these exceptional opportunities, visit 
the following NPC webpages:
    a.  Attach* and OPSCO positions:  http://www.public.navy.mil
    /bupers-npc/officer/detailing/Attach*/pages/default2.aspx
    b.  OPSASST positions:  http://www.public.navy.mil/bupers-npc
    /enlisted/detailing/shorespecialprograms/pages
    /natopepjointplacement.aspx

6.  This message will remain in effect until superseded or canceled, 
whichever occurs first.

7.  Released by Vice Admiral Ted N. Branch, OPNAV N2N6.//

BT
#7331
NNNN

