UNCLASSIFIED
ROUTINE
R 211504Z FEB 17
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC
BT
UNCLAS
PASS TO OFFICE CODES:
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//

NAVADMIN 041/17

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/FEB//

SUBJ/AUGUST 2017 CYCLE 101 NAVY-WIDE EXAMINATIONS FOR ADVANCEMENT OF SELECTED 
RESERVE PERSONNEL TO E4 THROUGH E6//

REF/A/DOC/BUPERS/2NOV07//
REF/B/MSG/SECNAV WASHINGTON DC/052044ZMAR13//
REF/C/MSG/CNO WASHINGTON DC/252221ZJUN10//
REF/D/MSG/CNO WASHINGTON DC/131544ZDEC07//
NARR/REF A IS BUPERSINST 1430.16F, ADVANCEMENT MANUAL FOR ENLISTED PERSONNEL 
OF THE U.S. NAVY AND U.S. NAVY RESERVE.  REF B IS ALNAV 015/13, PERSONNEL 
SECURITY INVESTIGATION SUBMISSION REQUIREMENTS UNCLASSIFIED.  REF C IS 
NAVADMIN 215/10, PERFORMANCE EVALUATION AND ADVANCEMENT GUIDANCE FOR 
INDIVIDUAL AUGMENTEE SAILORS.  REF D IS NAVADMIN 336/07, ADMINISTRATION OF 
THE NAVY-WIDE ADVANCEMENT EXAM FOR SAILORS IN IRAQ, AFGHANISTAN, AND THE HORN 
OF AFRICA.//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN provides guidance for administration of Cycle 101 
Navy-Wide Advancement Examinations (NWAE) for advancement in rate of selected 
reserve (SELRES) personnel.
    a.  SELRES exams will be administered in August 2017.
    b.  All candidates serving on voluntary recall or mobilization will 
compete for advancement as a SELRES.
    c.  This NAVADMIN supplements reference (a).
    d.  In addition to the requirements set fourth chapter 6 of reference 
(a), educational services officers (ESO) must follow the pre-exam preparation 
requirements in the exam verbatim located at https://prod.neas.netc.navy.mil.

2.  Eligibility Requirements.  Advancement candidate eligibility requirements 
are found in chapter 2 of reference (a), with the following information 
specific only to Cycle 101:
    a.  SELRES candidates must meet the basic eligibility requirements 
outlined in chapter 2 of reference (a) prior to 1 August 2017 to be 
considered as a candidate.  Candidates who do not meet the eligibility 
requirements are ineligible for Cycle 101 NWAE and shall not be administered 
an advancement examination.
    b.  The terminal eligibility date used to compute time-in-rate (TIR) is 
1 January 2018.
    c.  The minimum TIR date must be on or before:
        E6 - 1 January 2015
        E5 - 1 January 2017
        E4 - 1 July 2017
    d.  TIR requirements for early promote E5 Sailors can be waived for one 
year with commanding officer (CO) or officer in charge approval.
    e.  High year tenure (HYT) date or approved HYT waiver must be effective 
1 January 2018 or later.
    f.  Candidates who have submitted a formal written request for voluntary 
transfer to the retired reserve (with or without pay) or Fleet Reserve on a 
date prior to their mandated HYT are ineligible for advancement.
    g.  Candidates in a rating requiring a security clearance must have a 
favorable investigation adjudication issued by the Department of Defense 
Central Adjudication Facility or a COs interim clearance must have been 
granted before 1 August 2017.  Once Sailors have a clearance, they must 
maintain that clearance eligibility.  If for any reason a clearance is denied 
or revoked, an exam is not authorized until a new clearance is granted.  
Rates requiring a security clearance are AC, AE, AG, AO, AT, AWF, AWO, AWR, 
AWS, AZ, CTI, CTN, CTR, CTT, EOD, ET, ETR, ETV, FC, GM, HT, IS, IT, LN, MA, 
MC, MM, MMA, MMW, MN, ND, OS, QM, SB, SO, STG, STS, and YN.  Refer to 
reference (b) for additional guidance.
    h.  Change of rate and retention approvals must be approved and completed 
no later than 31 July 2017.  This includes approvals from Navy Personnel 
Command, "A" schools, etc.
    i.  Compute performance mark average (PMA) using all evaluations in the 
current rank with an ending date that falls within the following time 
periods:
        E6 exam - 1 August 2014 to 31 July 2017
        E5 exam - 1 June 2016 to 31 July 2017
        E4 exam - 1 January 2017 to 31 July 2017
    j.  For additional guidance on computing PMA, refer to chapter 3 of 
reference (a).  For PMA guidance for individual augmentee (IA) Sailors refer 
to reference (c).
    k.  Branch class (BRCL) and special program indicator (SPI) code:  
BRCL 32 with a blank SPI code is an invalid Navy accounting status.  Commands 
should take action to have this corrected for Sailors reflecting no SPI code.  
Sailors in this status will be invalidated.
    l.  Cryptologic Technician Interpretive Sailors must achieve a minimum of 
L2/R2 on the Defense Language Proficiency Test in their primary language, as 
assigned by their CO, at least once in current paygrade.
    m.  Sailors assigned to a submarine source rating must be fully 
qualified, in line with the Submarine Qualifications Designation for Enlisted 
Members (MILPERSMAN 1220-040).

3.  Exam Ordering
    a.  Deploying commands can order exams up to six months prior to the 
scheduled examination date.  Exams required prior to the TIR list opening are 
ordered via message or in the preferred message format via e-mail to 
sfly_N321_exam_order(at)navy.mil following the guidelines in chapter 4 and 
figure 4-1 of reference (a).  Specify in the subject line that the request is 
for the early ordering of examination material.  Ensure a point of contact 
(POC) is included in the message.  Refer to reference (d) for IA Sailors who 
are pending deployment to, or are deployed to and operating in a 
Congressionally Designated Combat Zone/Approved Contingency Operations Area.
    b.  Cryptologic Technician-Interpretive/Cryptologic Technician-
Network/Cryptologic Technician-Collection, Sensitive Compartmented 
Information (SCI) exam ordering dates can be found on the Navy Enlisted 
Advancement System (NEAS) website at https://prod.neas.netc.navy.mil.
        (1) ESOs must verify TIR eligibility lists on NEAS Web for initial 
exam ordering.
        (2) Additional exams are ordered via message or in message format via 
e-mail to sfly_cryptologic.products(at)navy.mil following the guidelines of 
reference (a), chapter 4.  Commands must include their Department of Defense 
Activity Address Code (DODAAC) account number, POC, and the number of exams 
required.  DODAAC commands requesting the forwarding of exams should include 
the forwarding command as an info addressee on the message.  The deadline for 
additional orders is 12 June 2017.
    c.  Exam ordering for non-SCI exams begins 28 May 2017.  ESOs must verify 
TIR eligibility lists on the NEAS website during the following time periods:
        (1) Initial TIR lists will be available 28 May to 20 June 2017.
        (2) Additional TIR lists will be available 21 June to 25 July 2017.  
Deadline to order additional SELRES exams is 5 September 2017.
        (3) Exams required after the TIR list has closed as well as exams for 
prior service reenlistment eligibility reserve Sailors should be ordered via 
message or in message format via e-mail to sfly_N321_exam_order(at)navy.mil 
following the guidelines in chapter 4 of reference (a).  Ensure a POC is 
included in the message.
    d.  Exams for IA Sailors or recalled reservists will be ordered by the 
command holding the service record of the member.  Authority is granted for 
these candidates to be administered exams with the active-duty candidates of 
the command.  However, these candidates are still required to take the Cycle 
101 exam and not the Cycle 236 exam.
    e.  When an exam is not used during the normally scheduled event, do not 
destroy the exam prior to 1 October 2017.
    f.  Cycle 101 exams should only be administered during the month of 
August.  A request must be submitted with justification via e-mail to 
sfly_N321_exam_order(at)navy.mil for permission to retain exams for 
administration on the next drill weekend in September 2017.  Ensure reason 
for requested delay is included.
    g.  ESOs must verify the exam order at the "View Previous Exam Orders" 
link via NEAS Web within 14 days of placing examination orders.  If 
discrepancies are noted, contact Naval Education and Training Professional 
Development Center (NETPDC) Exam Ordering and Discrepancies Branch (N321).

4.  Exam Administration and Answer Sheet Returns
    a.  For exam administration and answer sheet return instructions, refer 
to the exam verbatim at https://prod.neas.netc.navy.mil.
    b.  ESOs must check the exam tote-board on NEAS Web 
https://prod.neas.netc.navy.mil/Public/Toteboard.aspx often to ensure answer 
sheets have been received and processed.
    c.  Late exams should be kept to a minimum as they are for candidates 
who, through no fault of their own, are unable to take the exam at the 
regularly scheduled time.  NETPDC (N321) is the approving authority for all 
late exams.
    d.  The deadline to administer regular exams is 31 August 2017. Approved 
late exams must be administered no later than 30 September 2017.
    e.  A detailed discrepancy list will be maintained on NEAS Web. For 
guidance on correcting discrepancies via encrypted e-mail, refer to chapter 7 
of reference (a).
    f.  Refer to reference (d) regarding procedures for missed exam cycle for 
E4-E6 IA candidates.  Missed exam cycle considerations are not an automatic 
process.  Commands must submit the command letter of transmittal and 
worksheet or answer sheet.

5.  Examination Results
    a.  E4-E6 results will be provided via Bureau of Naval Personnel Online 
to authorized command representatives prior to release of profile sheets.
    b.  Commands are directed to verify the examination status verification 
report for accuracy before frocking and/or advancement of E4-E6 candidates.
    c.  Individual Sailors may view/download their profile sheet via
a .mil domain computer at 
https://prod.neas.netc.navy.mil/NEASRpts/Individual.aspx.

6.  Any additional information regarding this cycle will be posted on NEAS 
Web.

7.  Points of Contact
    a.  Navy Personnel Command (PERS-812) at 901-874-4500/3224/DSN 882 or via 
e-mail at advancements-reserve(at)navy.mil.
    b.  SCI exam questions and orders at 850-473-5867/DSN 753 or via e-mail 
at sfly_cryptologic.products(at)navy.mil.
    c.  Exam orders, records, and discrepancies at 850-473-6148/DSN 753 or 
via e-mail at sfly_N321_exam_order(at)navy.mil or 
sfly_N321_discrepanc(at)navy.mil.

8.  This NAVADMIN will remain in effect until superseded or canceled, 
whichever occurs first.

9.  Released by Vice Admiral R. P. Burke, N1//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
