UNCLASSIFIED//

ROUTINE

R 212302Z FEB 19

FM CNO WASHINGTON DC

TO NAVADMIN

INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC

BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 040/19

PASS TO OFFICE CODES:
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/FEB//

SUBJ/FY-20 NAVY ACTIVE-DUTY AND RESERVE ENLISTED ADVANCEMENT SELECTION BOARDS 
FOR CHIEF PETTY OFFICER (CORRECTED COPY)//

REF/A/DOC/BUPERS/19SEP18//

REF/B/DOC/COMNAVPERSCOM/14JUN18//

REF/C/DOC/BUPERS/1MAY15//

NARR/REF A IS BUPERSINST 1430.16G, ADVANCEMENT MANUAL FOR ENLISTED PERSONNEL 
OF THE U.S. NAVY AND U.S. NAVY RESERVE.  REF B IS MILPERSMAN 1220-040, 
SUBMARINE QUALIFICATIONS DESIGNATION FOR ENLISTED MEMBERS.  REF C IS 
BUPERSINST 1610.10D, NAVY PERFORMANCE EVALUATION SYSTEM.//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN provides guidance for the FY-20 Navy Active- Duty and 
Reserve enlisted advancement selection boards for chief petty officer (CPO).  
The Active Component (AC)/Full-Time Support
(FTS) cycle is 242 and the Selected Reserve (SELRES) cycle is 104.
The Reserve Component (RC) board will consider personnel serving on active 
duty as FTS and SELRES, to include those serving on voluntary and involuntary 
recall and mobilization orders.  Mobilized Individual Ready Reserve personnel 
are considered under the SELRES requirements for advancement.

2.  RC Timeline:
    a.  28 February 2019:  Individual Augmentation evaluations used for time-
in-rate (TIR) waivers must have an ending date by this date and must be 
available to the board.
    b.  20 April 2019:  RC candidates changing ratings must be in their new 
rating by this date to be considered for selection in the new rating.
    c.  29 April 2019:  Letter to the board (LTB) deadline for the RC E-7 
selection board.
    d.  20 May 2019:  RC E-7 selection board convenes.  All eligibility 
requirements, to include any waivers, must have final approval and be posted 
to the records of the candidates prior to this date.
    e.  7 June 2019:  RC E-7 selection board scheduled to adjourn.

3.  AC Timeline:
    a.  28 February 2019:  Individual Augmentation evaluations used for TIR 
waivers must have an ending date by this date and must be available to the 
board.
    b.  24 May 2019:  AC board candidates changing ratings must be in their 
new rating by this date to be considered for selection in the new rating.
    c.  3 June 2019:  LTB deadline to the AC E-7 selection board.
    d.  24 June 2019:  AC E-7 selection board convenes.  All eligibility 
requirements, to include any waivers, must have final approval and be posted 
to the records of the candidates prior to this date.
    e.  19 July 2019:  AC E-7 selection board scheduled to adjourn.

4.  Eligibility Criteria.  Candidates must meet the eligibility requirements 
outlined in chapters 2 and 11 of reference (a) and this NAVADMIN prior to the 
scheduled board convening date.  All requirements must be reflected in the 
enlisted master file prior to the board convening.  Requirements achieved or 
posted to the record of the candidates after the scheduled board convening 
date will be considered late and do not make a candidate eligible for the 
regularly scheduled board or entitle a candidate to a special selection 
board.  If candidates are invalidated and later regain eligibility, submit a 
message to Naval Education Training Professional Development Center 
(NETPDC)(N321) and Naval Personnel Command (NPC) Reserve Enlisted/Reserve 
Officer Selection Board Support Branch (PERS-802) requesting validation of 
eligibility status and provide explanation.  Eligibility requirements 
include:
    a.  The name of the candidate appears on the selection board eligibility 
list in the correct competitive group on their profile sheet.  Candidates 
should register for profile sheet updates via the Navy Enlisted Advancement 
System (NEAS) website at https://prod.neas.netc.navy.mil/LoginWebBatch.aspx.  
Candidates and commands share equal responsibility to ensure the eligibility 
list is accurate.
    b.  TIR date must be on or before l January 2017.  In line with reference 
(a), the terminal eligibility date used to compute TIR is
1 January 2020.  If a TIR waiver is granted, the evaluation used to grant the 
TIR waiver must be available to the board.
    c.  High Year Tenure (HYT) waivers must be approved prior to the board 
convening.  HYT date or approved HYT waivers for the current paygrade must be 
1 September 2019 or later.  Candidates who will be at HYT on 1 September 2019 
for the next higher paygrade are ineligible for advancement, regardless of 
any approved HYT waiver.
    d.  Commands must revalidate members whose disapproved or cancelled 
retirement authorization is adjudicated prior to selection board convening 
date by sending an e-mail with reason for revalidation to NPC PERS-802.  See 
paragraph 208 of reference (a) for fleet reserve request impacts to 
eligibility.
    e.  Security clearance requirements.  See paragraph 203 of reference (a).  
Ratings requiring a security clearance are AC, AE, AG, AO, AT, AWF, AWO, AWR, 
AWS, AWV, AZ, CTI, CTM, CTN, CTR, CTT, EOD, ET, FC, FCA, GM, HT, IC, IS, IT, 
LN, MA, MC, MN, ND, OS, QM, SB, SO, STG and YN, as well as all nuclear and 
submarine ratings.
    f.  Competitive group specific eligibility requirements.
Candidates must meet special requirements (citizenship, medical,
etc.) for certain ratings as outlined in chapter 2 of reference (a).
Required navy enlisted classifications (NEC) must be posted in the enlisted 
master file prior to the regular scheduled board convening date.  NECs that 
post to the enlisted master file after the regular scheduled board convening 
date, even with a prior date, will not entitle a candidate to a special 
selection board.  Commands must verify and submit a message to NETPDC (N321) 
and NPC PERS-802 requesting invalidation of those selection board eligible 
candidates who no longer meet the qualifications listed in reference (a) or 
below by the scheduled board convening date.
        (1) Non-nuclear submarine Sailors must be designated as either SS, 
SU, or SQ in line with reference (b) as of the board convening date to be 
eligible.  Candidates designated as SG or SP are not eligible for 
advancement.
        (2) Canvasser recruiter personnel are ineligible for advancement to 
E-7.

5.  Record review and communication with the E-7 selection board.
    a.  Any evaluation gaps should be resolved by either submitting the 
missing evaluations via a LTB or a statement in lieu of missing report in 
line with chapter 17 of reference (c).
    b.  Information received that is not under a signed LTB or not received 
by the MyNavy Career Center (MNCC) by the established deadline listed in 
paragraph 2 will not be presented to the board, regardless of any attempt to 
submit on time.  The time and date LTBs are received in the NPC Customer 
Service Center inbox (Central Time
Zone) is the time and date used for deadline verification.
    c.  All LTBs and each enclosure must contain the records of the 
candidates full name and full social security number.  Candidates must verify 
that the correct board number is on their signed cover letter.  Board numbers 
are:
        (1) 335 for SELRES
        (2) 336 for FTS
        (3) 360 for AC
    d.  The preferred method to submit a LTB is an encrypted e-mail to 
cscselboard(at)navy.mil.  E-mailed LTBs must be encrypted to protect 
personally identifiable information.  Specific instructions for submitting a 
LTB, to include downloading encryption certificates, can be found at 
https://www.public.navy.mil/bupers-
npc/boards/activedutyenlisted/Pages/GeneralInformation.aspx.
    e.  Trouble with file encryption or certificates or any other 
communication errors that prevent the MNCC from reading a submission of a 
candidate do not justify a late LTB.
    f.  To verify receipt of an LTB, go to 
https://npccontactcenter.ahf.nmci.navy.mil/OA_HTML/npc.html or call the MNCC.  
Although late or unsigned LTBs may be accepted by the MNCC, they will not be 
presented to the board and no feedback will be provided to the candidate.
    g.  If unable to e-mail, candidates may mail a LTB to the addresses 
below.  Mailed LTBs should be on plain white paper and paper clipped (no 
staples, binders, folders or tabs).
        (1) SELRES/Mobilized E7 Board:
            MyNavy Career Center (BUPERS 074)
            President
            FY20 Reserve E7 Selection Board 335
            5720 Integrity Drive
            Millington TN 38055
        (2) FTS E7 Board:
            MyNavy Career Center (BUPERS 074)
            President
            FY20 Reserve E7 Selection Board 336
            5720 Integrity Drive
            Millington TN 38055
        (3) Active E7 Board:
            MyNavy Career Center (BUPERS-074)
            President
            FY20 Active E7 Selection Board 360
            5720 Integrity Drive
            Millington TN 38055
    h.  Certified or registered mail is not advised due to delays in 
handling.
    i.  Candidates may submit more than one LTB vice waiting until the 
deadline to submit one all-inclusive LTB.  Although multiple LTBs are 
authorized, candidates should not duplicate previously sent information.
    j.  The same LTB deadline applies to candidates who gain eligibility 
after the LTB deadline and before the convening date.  A candidate who is 
working to fix an eligibility issue and expects to be selection board 
eligible prior to the board convening date may submit a LTB.

6.  Selection board results.  Official results will be provided online via 
BUPERS Online (BOL) to authorized command representatives prior to the 
release of the official results via NAVADMIN.  Selectee profile sheets will 
be published by NETPDC within 30 days of both RC and AC selection board 
results being released via NAVADMIN.
Educational services officers who are registered users may access results 
through the NEAS website https://prod-neas.ncdc.navy.mil.
Individual candidates may view profile sheets via a .mil domain computer at 
https://prod- neas.ncdc.navy.mil/NEASRpts/Individual.aspx.

7.  Additional information regarding this cycle will be posted at:
    a.  AC boards:  https://www.public.navy.mil/bupers-
npc/boards/activedutyenlisted/Pages/GeneralInformation.aspx
    b.  RC boards:  https://www.public.navy.mil/bupers-
npc/boards/reserveenlisted/Pages/GeneralInformation.aspx

8.  Points of Contact:
    a.  MyNavy Career Center,  1-833-330-6622, or via e-mail at 
askmncc(at)navy.mil.  Do not submit LTBs to this e-mail.
    b.  Selection board eligibility NPC PERS-802, (901) 874-4537, or via e-
mail at NPC_Enlisted_Selbd_Elig(at)navy.mil.
    c.  NETPDC (N321) at (850) 473-6148/DSN 753, or via e-mail at 
sfly_N321_discrepanc(at)navy.mil.

9.  This message will remain in effect until canceled or superseded.

10.  Released by Vice Admiral R. P. Burke, N1.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//

