UNCLASSIFIED
ROUTINE
R 161731Z AUG 17
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC
BT
UNCLAS
PASS TO OFFICE CODES:
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//

NAVADMIN 199/17

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/AUG//

SUBJ/RENEWAL OF NAVAL SPECIAL OPERATIONS ENLISTED EXPLOSIVE ORDNANCE DISPOSAL 
TECHNICIAN CRITICAL SKILLS RETENTION BONUS PROGRAM//

REF/A/MSG/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/302154ZOCT13//
REF/B/DOC/TITLE 37 U.S.C./3JAN12//
REF/C/DOC/DOD/JUL16//
NARR/REF A IS NAVADMIN 283/13, RENEWAL OF NAVAL SPECIAL OPERATIONS EXPLOSIVE 
ORDNANCE DISPOSAL (EOD) TECHNICIAN CRITICAL SKILLS RETENTION BONUS.  REF B IS 
SECTION 355 OF TITLE 37, U.S. CODE, SPECIAL PAY:  RETENTION INCENTIVES FOR 
MEMBERS QUALIFIED IN CRITICAL MILITARY SKILLS OR ASSIGNED TO HIGH PRIORITY 
UNITS.  REF C IS DOD FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT REGULATION, VOLUME 7A, CHAPTER 2:  
REPAYMENT OF UNEARNED PORTION OF BONUSES AND OTHER BENEFITS.//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN supersedes reference (a) and announces the renewal of 
Naval Special Operations (NSO) senior enlisted Critical Skills Retention 
Bonus (CSRB) program.  The NSO senior enlisted CSRB is part of the 
overarching effort to size, shape and stabilize the NSO explosive ordnance 
disposal (EOD) force.

2.  This bonus is authorized under reference (b).  Specific critical Navy 
enlisted classifications (code) (NEC) and approved award levels have been 
prescribed by the Office of the Secretary of Defense.  The Chief of Naval 
Personnel, NSO Enlisted Community Manager (BUPERS-324) will act as the 
program manager for the NSO EOD senior enlisted CSRB program.  All 
applications for this bonus will be submitted to BUPERS-324 for processing 
and tracking.  By law, a member may receive no more than $200,000.00 in CSRB 
monies over a career. Selective reenlistment bonus awards are not included in 
this cap. The eligibility criteria stated in this NAVADMIN can be changed at 
any time by the program manager if a bonus reduction is warranted based on 
the needs of the NSO EOD community.

3.  NSO enlisted members with NEC 5337, in paygrades E-7 through E-9, who 
have completed at least 20 and no more than 22 years of active service who 
agree for a minimum of a 3-year service obligation, may be offered the NSO 
CSRB.  A subsequent CSRB contract may be offered to eligible master EOD 
technicians who previously received a CSRB.  In no case may a CSRB be paid 
beyond the 25th year of service (YOS) of the member.  Furthermore, applicants 
must meet the following eligibility criteria:
    a.  Be serving on active duty in the regular component,
    b.  have the favorable recommendation for receipt of NSO CSRB of the 
commanding officer.  Members under an existing CSRB contract are not eligible 
to receive an additional CSRB for service outlined in original contract 
agreement.

4.  NSO CSRB contract lengths, payments and active-duty service obligations 
are outlined below:
    a.  Members may apply for and sign a contract in their 19th YOS. but CSRB 
obligated service and payments will begin no earlier than the beginning of 
their 20th YOS.  At a minimum, member must contract to 23 years of service.  
Members in the paygrade of E-7 may contract for CSRB to 24 YOS, their high-
year-tenure (HYT) mark.  Members in the paygrades of E-8 and E-9 are eligible 
to contract to 25 YOS.  If a member serves less than a full year, the member 
will be paid the daily rate to the end of their eligibility.  Specific bonus 
amounts are graduated per YOS.
    b.  Award amounts tabulated represent a member contracting at the 
beginning of the specified YOS.  Actual amounts may vary depending on the 
effective date of the CSRB contract.

    Options    YOS    2 Years  3 Years  4 Years  5 Years
    Initial    20-22  N/A      $60,000  $80,000  $120,000
    Subsequent 22-23  $40,000  N/A      N/A      N/A

    c.  NSO CSRB initial contracts shall be for a minimum of 3 years and 
subsequent contracts shall be for a minimum of 2 years.  CSRB will not be 
paid beyond the 25th YOS of a member.  A member under CSRB contract will not 
submit a request for retirement or tender a resignation with an effective 
date that is prior to completion of the agreement.  Members are authorized 
early reenlistment in order to align CSRB and reenlistment contracts.  
Reenlistments and extensions may be combined to align service dates for 
maximum opportunity.
    d.  HYT dates are firm and HYT waiver requests will not be considered 
during the NSW CSRB application process.  Members are not eligible for CSRB 
payments past their HYT date or beyond 25 years of active-duty service.

5.  Program Execution
    a.  Members should submit a letter request for NSO CSRB to the program 
manager 60 to 180 days prior to entering into a NSO CSRB contract via their 
chain of command.
    b.  Members will receive the bonus in a lump sum payment, effective from 
the date of contract execution.
    c.  CSRB requests for personnel who are being processed for NEC removal 
or restoration will be held in abeyance pending final resolution.

6.  CSRB applications shall be submitted via encrypted e-mail to the program 
manager or via mail to:

    Bureau of Naval Personnel (BUPERS-3)
    5720 Integrity Drive
    Millington, TN 38055-5402

Encrypted e-mail is preferred.  The CSRB application template can be located 
at http://www.public.navy.mil/bupers-
npc/enlisted/community/specwarops/Pages/EOD.aspx.

7.  CSRB approval does not currently update the Defense Joint Military Pay 
System (DJMS) of the intent to reenlist of the member. Until DJMS can be 
programmed to accept CSRB reenlistment payments, manual processing is 
required.  Payment should post to the account of the member by the second pay 
period following the day the program manager receives notification of 
reenlistment contract.  Master Military Pay Account (MMPA) must reflect 
contract or obligated service for enlisted members and tax-free status (if 
applicable) must post to MMPA prior to final submission.

8.  The following documents are required:
    a.  60-180 days prior to contract:
        (1) Letter of the member requesting a NSO CSRB contract and
        (2) Endorsement letter of the commanding officer.
    b.  Prior to payment, members must submit (encrypted e-mail preferred) a 
copy of reenlistment contract and/or extension agreement with proof of tax-
free status if applicable.

9.  Recoupment and Repayment Policy.  In line with reference (c), a member of 
the uniformed services who enters into a written agreement with specified 
service conditions for receipt of a bonus is entitled to the full amount of 
the bonus if the member fulfills the conditions of that written agreement.  
If the member fails to fulfill the service conditions specified in the 
written agreement for pay, then the pay may be terminated and the member may 
be required to repay an amount equal to the unearned portion of the pay.

10. Points of contact:
    a.  Sea Air and Land, Special Warfare Combatant Craft, EOD, and Navy 
Diver Enlisted Community Manager, LCDR Justin Davis, at (901) 874-2858/DSN 
882 or via e-mail at justin.p.davis1(at)navy.mil.
    b.  EOD Enlisted Community Manager/Technical Advisor, EODCM Robert 
Hentzen, at (901) 874-2827/DSN 882 or via e-mail at 
robert.hentzen(at)navy.mil.

11. Released by Vice Admiral R. P. Burke, N1.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
