UNCLASSIFIED//

ROUTINE

R 091855Z SEP 14 PSN 474239H29

FM CNO WASHINGTON DC

TO NAVADMIN

BT
UNCLAS

SUBJ/NOMINATIONS FOR NAVY COALITION OF SAILORS AGAINST DESTRUCTIVE DECISIONS 
SEA AND SHORE CHAPTER OF THE YEAR AWARDS// 

NAVADMIN 209/14

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/SEP//

REF/A/DOC/OPNAV/18JUN10//

AMPN/REF A IS OPNAVINST 1500.80, COALITION OF SAILORS AGAINST DESTRUCTIVE 
DECISIONS PEER MENTORING PROGRAM//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN provides guidance for submission of FY-14 Coalition of 
Sailors Against Destructive Decisions (CSADD) Sea and Shore Chapter of the 
Year (COY) nominations.  All active-duty, reserve component and reserve 
officers' training corps unit CSADD chapters are eligible.  Two sea chapters 
(large and small) and two shore chapters (installations and training) will be 
selected for COY.

2.  The CSADD Sea and Shore COY awards were established to recognize positive 
social interaction, leadership and decision making demonstrated through CSADD 
efforts through a variety of communication tools and social networking 
created and sustained by the chapters.

3.  Nominations for CSADD Sea and Shore COY awards shall include only 
activities and successes that occurred during FY-14.
Nominations shall be submitted by the unit commander or designated 
representative, who will forward nominations via the regional commanders to 
the Total Sailor Fitness Office (OPNAV N170C).  If a command has not 
registered its chapter, it must do so, as outlined in reference (a), prior to 
submitting a nomination.

4.  The original and one copy of the nominations are to be mailed by each 
CSADD chapter to its appropriate regional CSADD chapter no later than 1 
November 2014.  Regional commander submissions will be mailed or e-mailed NLT 
30 November 2014 to the following address:
    Twenty-first Century Sailor Office
    ATTN:  Ms. Amanda Alston
    Family Readiness N170C
    Building 457, RM 202
    5720 Integrity Drive
    Millington, TN 38055-6000
Or via e-mail at amanda.alston(at)navy.mil.  Nominations postmarked or 
received after 30 November 2014 will be disqualified.

5.  Package Requirements:
    a.  Page one
        (1) Command name and UIC.
        (2) Unit Type (i.e., ship, submarine, squadron, installation, etc.).
        (3) Location of CSADD Chapter (name of installation/base).
        (4) Point of Contact:  Include name/rank/title, command address, e-
mail and phone number.
        (5) Commander/commanding officer name/rank.
        (6) Command master chief/senior enlisted leader name/rate.
        (7) CSADD chapter's president/leader name/rank.
        (8) A paragraph from the CSADD chapter president/leader describing 
chapter contributions to foster a culture of positive decision making.
    b.  Page two
        (1) Program Background
            (a) CSADD mission (no more than two sentences).
            (b) Date of inception.
            (c) Number of 18-25 year old Sailors in the command.
            (d) Number of current chapter members.
            (e) Growth of program (provide no more than two paragraphs to 
describe program growth since inception).
    c.  Pages three and four
        (1) List the different types of activities, methods and products used 
to promulgate the CSADD message.
        (2) List tangible and verifiable evidence, showing how the chapter is 
making a difference (e.g. no DUIs for a period of XX days, no physical 
fitness assessment failures, mishap reduction by XX percent, etc.).  All data 
and statistics provided must be for
FY-14 but previous year data can be referenced for comparison as evidence of 
progress.
        (3) Describe chapter impact on the local community and command during 
the FY-14 period.
        (4) Describe the overall methodology of the program, including 
specific achievements and goals accomplished.
    d.  Cover page:  Commander/commanding officer endorsement (no more than 
one page)
    e.  Enclosures:  Pictures, flyers, videos on DVD and other pertinent 
material may be included, as appropriate and desired.

6.  Packages will not exceed five pages plus enclosures and will be typed 
single space, using courier new font in 10 or 12 pitch.

7.  Point of contact is Ms. Amanda Alston, CSADD Program Coordinator, (901) 
874-6723 or via e-mail at amanda.alston(at)navy.mil.

8.  This message will remain in effect until superseded or canceled, 
whichever occurs first.

9.  Released by Vice Admiral W. F. Moran, N1.//

BT
#7172
NNNN

