UNCLASSIFIED//
ROUTINE
R 102125Z FEB 16
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC
BT
UNCLAS
PASS TO OFFICE CODES:
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//

NAVADMIN 033/16

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/FEB//

SUBJ/2017 NAVY LEGISLATIVE FELLOWSHIP CALL FOR APPLICATIONS//

REF/A/DOC/BUPERS/12NOV10//
AMPN/REF A IS BUPERSINST 1560.21E, LEGISLATIVE FELLOWS PROGRAM.//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN solicits applications for the 2017 Navy Legislative 
Fellowship Program.  The Legislative Fellows Program allows naval officers, 
senior enlisted and Department of the Navy civilians to broaden their 
understanding of the legislative process and the operation of the U.S. 
Congress through a year-long full-time assignment to the office of a Member 
of the House of Representatives or the Senate.  The Legislative Fellows
Program also enhances the Navy’s ability to fulfill its role in the national 
policy development process.

2.  This is a highly competitive program.  Applicants records must reflect 
sustained superior performance and potential for future assignments in 
critical billets.  Upon completion of the program, officers earn a 
Legislative Additional Qualification Designator. Additionally, there is an 
opportunity to earn a Legislative Studies Certificate through a sponsoring 
agency.

3.  Military Applicants.  Participation is open to unrestricted line
officers, restricted line officers, and staff corps officers in the permanent
grades of O-3 through O-5.  Enlisted participation is open to all rates in
the permanent grades of E-7 through E-9.  The selection process will focus on
individual performance, promotion potential, academic and subspecialty
qualifications, needs of the Navy, and availability for follow-on assignment.
Officers with permanent change of station orders already issued will not be
considered.
    a.  Applicants must be available for Permanent Change of Station
assignment to Washington, DC, from November 2016 through December 2017.
During the fellowship, officers and senior enlisted will be assigned to the
Office of Legislative Affairs (OLA) for administrative purposes.  Upon
execution of orders, fellows agree to serve for three years following
completion or termination of the fellowship.  A follow-on utilization tour in
legislative affairs is preferred (making career timing an important
consideration), but depends on community-specific billet requirements, needed
officer progression, and availability of legislative assignments.  All
officer applicants must contact their detailers for counseling on the career
impact of participation in the Legislative Fellowship Program.
    b.  Submit applications via e-mail to the OLA point of contact no later
than 29 April 2016.  Program information and submission guidance are
available on the Navy legislative affairs website at
http://www.navy.mil/local/ola/legislative_fellowship1.asp.
    c.  Points of contact are LCDR Nicole Williams, Navy Fellows Program
Manager, OLA, who can be reached at (703) 697-2885/DSN 227 or via e-mail at
nicole.williams3(at)navy.mil; and LCDR Angelin Graham, PERS-440, who can be
reached at (901) 874-4056/DSN 882 or via e-mail at
angelin.graham(at)navy.mil.

4.  Civilian Applicants.  Senior civilian employees, GM/GS-13 and above or
equivalent, interested in the Legislative Fellowship Program must contact
their local civilian training officer for information on submission of
applications for the 2017 program.  Parent commands are responsible for all
program costs.  Questions concerning department of the Navy civilian
participation should be directed to Ms. Janet Evans at (202) 685-6493 or via
e-mail at janet.m.evans(at)navy.mil. A description of the program can be
found at
https://portal.secnav.navy.mil/orgs/mra/donhr/training/pages/chfp.aspx

5.  This NAVADMIN will remain in effect until superseded or canceled,
whichever occurs first.

6.  Released by Vice Admiral W. F. Moran, N1.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
