RTTUZYUW RUEWMCS0000 1921724-UUUU--RUCRNAD.
ZNR UUUUU
R 111724Z JUL 13
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//
BT
UNCLAS//N01420//

NAVADMIN 176/13

MSGID/GENDAMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/JUL//

SUBJ/FY-15 ACTIVE DUTY LIMITED DUTY OFFICER AND CHIEF WARRANT OFFICER 
IN-SERVICE PROCUREMENT BOARD// 

REF/A/DOC/OPNAV/14DEC09// 

REF/B/MSG/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/171307ZSEP12// 

REF/C/MSG/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/202357ZAPR10// 

REF/D/DOC/COMNAVPERSCOM/30MAY13// 

REF/E/MSG/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/131544ZDEC07// 

REF/F/MSG/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/091410ZFEB00// 

REF/G/MSG/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/221403ZMAR13// 

NARR/REF A IS OPNAVINST 1420.1B, ENLISTED TO OFFICER COMMISSIONING 
PROGRAMS APPLICATION ADMINISTRATIVE MANUAL.  REF B IS NAVADMIN 281/12, 
ADVANCED CHANGE NOTICE TO OPNAVINST 1420.1B CHAPTER SEVEN, LIMITED 
DUTY OFFICER AND CHIEF WARRANT OFFICER APPLICATION INSTRUCTION AND 
POLICY.  REF C IS NAVADMIN 139/10, ESTABLISHMENT OF THE CYBER WARRANT 
OFFICER COMMUNITY.  REF D IS MILPERSMAN 1220-100, NAVY DIVER (ND) 
RATING.  REF E IS NAVADMIN 336/07, ADMINISTRATION OF THE NAVY-WIDE 
ADVANCEMENT EXAM FOR SAILORS IN IRAQ, AFGHANISTAN, AND THE HORN OF 
AFRICA.  REF F IS NAVADMIN 018/00, SPECIAL DUTY ASSIGNMENT PAY (SDAP).  
REF G IS NAVADMIN 70/13, NUCLEAR TRAINED SAILOR APPLICATIONS TO 
OFFICER COMMISSIONING PROGRAMS.// 

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN announces the solicitation of applications from 
highly qualified and motivated E6 through E9 personnel for the FY-15 
Limited Duty Officer (LDO) and Chief Warrant Officer (CWO) programs.  
LDOs and CWOs bring a variety of experience and unique perspectives 
into the wardroom from their enlisted service.  The LDO/CWO career 
paths provide additional leadership opportunities and enhance a 
Sailor's ability to contribute to the Navy.  These programs deliver to 
the officer corps seasoned professionals with proven leadership 
abilities at an economical cost.  LDOs provide broad technical 
management and leadership skills, and CWOs provide specific technical 
expertise and leadership skills in support of the unrestricted line, 
restricted line, and staff corps communities.  LDOs and CWOs serve in 
a variety of leadership billets within their technical fields, ranging 
from division officer to commanding officer ashore.

2.  Updated and additional policy guidance to reference (a) is 
promulgated in reference (b). 

3.  The FY-15 Active Duty LDO/CWO In-service Procurement Board will 
convene 8 January 2014.  For the most current board dates, visit NPC 
board webpage at http://www.public.navy.mil/bupers-npc/boards/
selectionboardsupport/pages/default2.aspx, select "FY-15 board 
schedule" when available.  Applications must be postmarked NLT
1 October 2013.  Routine addendums to applications, excluding 
evaluations and awards, must be received NLT 1 December 2013 for pre- 
board scanning.  Evaluations and awards must be received NLT the day 
prior to the board convening.  All applications/addendums must have 
the member's full SSN on each page.  Applications must be mailed to 
Navy Personnel Command (NPC) customer service center.  Time sensitive 
submissions may be submitted electronically to cscselboard@navy.mil.  
Electronic submissions must be sent using military e-mail accounts and 
be encrypted.  Hard copy and electronic submissions must include 
command endorsement.  Board number 180 is for CWO to LTJG and board 
number 181 is for enlisted to LDO/CWO.  The application mailing 
address is:
    a.  Navy Personnel Command (NPC) Customer Service Center
        President, FY-15 LDO/CWO Procurement Program Board 
        Board #180 or #181 
        5720 Integrity Drive
        Millington TN 38055
    b.  Express mail:
        Navy Personnel Command (NPC) Customer Service Center
        President FY-15 Active Duty Navy Limited
        Duty Officer and Chief Warrant Officer In-service
        Procurement Program Board #180 or #181
        5640 Ticonderoga Loop Bldg 768 RM E302
        Millington TN 38055

4.  Interview appraisal boards shall be constructed and approved by 
the commanding officer(CO)/officer in charge and consist of a minimum 
of three naval officers (LDO/CWO if available).  Every effort shall be 
used to ensure at least one board member is from the designator for 
which the applicant is applying (including but not limited to 
teleconference, VTC, DCO, etc.).  Minimum grade requirements for board 
members are LTJG, or CWO2 with two years time-in-grade.  The potential 
block on interview appraisals must be marked for LDO/CWO candidates.

5.  For applicants who have or are currently serving in an Individual 
Augmentee/Global Support Assignments (IA/GSA), include these tours in 
the assignment history section of the application.  COs recommendation 
must include validation of any listed IA/GSA assignment and the 
statement in reference (a), paragraph 3.

6.  Applicants currently serving in an IA/GSA assignment may have 
their application endorsed by their field commander.  All applications 
endorsed by field commanders must have their parent command 
concurrence.
A sample concurrence letter is located at http://www.public.navy.mil/ 
bupers-npc/officer/ communitymanagers/ldo_cwo/pages/references.aspx.

7.  Commands must ensure copies of the most recent periodic eval are 
included in the application or later addendum for board review and 
continuity.  First Class Petty Officers must submit their 15 November
2013 evaluation.

8.  Time in Service (TIS) for the FY-15 board must be computed to
1 October 2014.

9.  For FY-15, eligibility will be 8-14 years for LDO.  For nuclear 
trained applicants with greater than 14 years and less than 16 years 
of service, a time in service waiver using the NAVPERS form 1306/7 
will be considered.  LDO TIS waivers greater than 16 years will not be 
considered.

10.  CWO applicants for LDO must have at least 2 years TIG and be 
between 14 and 16 years total active service as of 1 October 2014.  
This enables selectees a full career opportunity as an LDO.  LDO 
(LTJG) selectees will terminate their CWO status and become a 
permanent LDO upon appointment.  No waivers will be granted.

11.  As a result of the LDO/CWO sustainability initiative, 
applications will not be accepted for the following active duty 
designators:
615X, 621X, 647X, 655X, 7211, 7231, 7281, 7481, 7511, and 7531.

12.  The FY-15 board will consider applicants for Cyber Chief Warrant 
Officers (743X).  Personnel applying for this designator must meet 
eligibility requirements listed in reference (c).

13.  Navy Diver applicants applying for designator (720X) must meet 
requirements outlined in reference (d) paragraph 18.b.(5)(a) through 
(e), (h), and (i).

14.  Due to ongoing rating mergers or realignments, eligible Sailors 
are encouraged to apply for the designator for which they have 
extensive documented technical and leadership experience in their 
enlisted service records, regardless of current rating.

15.  Applicants must maintain eligibility throughout the selection and 
promotion process.  Applicants who are deemed ineligible after the 
submission of applications must be declared ineligible by the current 
commanding officer.  A sample format is located at http://www.public.
navy.mil/bupers-
npc/officer/communitymanagers/ldo_cwo/pages/references.aspx.

16.  Each applicant and command must ensure that applications are 
complete and accurate.  Incomplete applications could result in non-
selection.  Refer to reference (a) (chapters 2, 7 and appendix f) for 
program overview, eligibility criteria, and application format.

17.  For the most current application process visit the PERS-803 
website at http://www.public.navy.mil/bupers-npc/boards/
administrative/ldo_cwo /pages/default.aspx.  This site contains 
application help and a review checklist to print and include in the 
application folder.  This site also contains guidance such as CSC 
mailing info/receipts check link, how to monitor application status on 
BUPERS online after PERS-803 review, and how to reconcile application 
errors via addendum if items or corrections are required for 
completeness or eligibility.

18.  For the most current information concerning open designator 
codes, visit the LDO/CWO OCM website at http://www.public.navy.mil/ 
bupers-npc/officer/communitymanagers/ldo_cwo/pages/references.aspx
and click on the LDO/CWO designators link.

19.  First Class Petty Officers serving in Iraq, Afghanistan, and the 
Horn of Africa that are determined CPO board eligible IAW reference
(e) or reference (f) are also eligible for LDO if all other 
eligibility requirements are met.

20.  Nuclear qualified applicants should follow additional guidance 
provided in reference (g).

21.  Points of contact:  
    a.  For general LDO/CWO career path and policy questions contact
CWO5 Mitch R. Allen at (901)874-3044/DSN 882 or via email at 
mitchell.allen(at)navy.mil or LT Leo Peterson at (901)874-4714 or via 
email at julio.peterson(at)navy.mil.  
    b.  For nuclear LDO/CWO OCM application and eligibility questions 
contact LCDR Charles Jones at (703) 604-5489 or via email at 
charles.o.jones(at)navy.mil. 
    c.  For application and eligibility questions contact the Navy 
Personnel Command (NPC) board sponsor CWO3 Mitch D. Allen at
(901) 874-3170/DSN 882 or via email at mitchell.d.allen(at)navy.mil or 
Mr. Jay Delfoe at (901)874-3849 or via email at 
joseph.delfoe(at)navy.mil.

22.  Released by Vice Admiral S. R. Van Buskirk, N1.//
BT
#0000
NNNN

