UNCLASSIFIED
ROUTINE
R 281530Z FEB 17
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC
BT
UNCLAS
PASS TO OFFICE CODES:
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//

NAVADMIN 049/17

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/FEB//

SUBJ/ACADEMIC YEAR 2017-2018 NAVAL WAR COLLEGE FLEET SEMINAR PROGRAM//

REF/A/MSG/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/160004ZAUG06//
AMPN/REF A IS NAVADMIN 233/06, JOINT PROFESSIONAL MILITARY EDUCATION FOR 
SENIOR ENLISTED LEADERS.//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN announces the 42nd consecutive year of Joint 
Professional Military Education (JPME) for senior leaders.  The Naval War 
College (NWC) Fleet Seminar Program (FSP) offers joint intermediate level PME 
through a set of three courses:  Strategy and War (S and W), Theater Security 
Decision Making (TSDM), and Joint Maritime Operations (JMO) and is offered at 
multiple locations in keeping with efforts of the Chief of Naval Personnel to 
foster a deliberate and flexible learning environment.  Each course normally 
requires one academic year to complete an FSP academic year runs from 
September through the following May.  All three courses are not offered 
simultaneously at all locations.  There is no tuition fee and course 
materials are provided on a loan basis at no cost to the students.

2.  The NWC FSP will be offered in 19 regional locations in the United States 
for academic year 2017-2018.  Planned locations and courses are:

    a.  Annapolis, MD (S and W, TSDM, and JMO)
    b.  Dahlgren, VA (JMO)
    c.  Everett, WA (S and W)
    d.  Fort Worth, TX (S and W)
    e.  Great Lakes, IL (TSDM)
    f.  Jacksonville, FL (TSDM and JMO)
    g.  Kitsap, WA (TSDM)
    h.  Mayport, FL (S and W)
    i.  Millington, TN (S and W)
    j.  New Orleans, LA (JMO)
    k.  Newport, RI (S and W, TSDM, and JMO)
    l.  Norfolk, VA (S and W, TSDM, and JMO)
    m.  Patuxent River, MD (TSDM)
    n.  Pearl Harbor, HI (S and W, TSDM, and JMO)
    o.  Pensacola, FL (Whiting Field) (JMO)
    p.  Port Hueneme, CA (TSDM)
    q.  San Diego, CA (S and W, TSDM, and JMO)
    r.  Washington, DC (S and W, TSDM, and JMO)
    s.  Whidbey Island, WA (JMO)

3.  FSP courses are similar in content and delivery methodology to the 
intermediate level program of study offered by the resident College of Naval 
Command and Staff in Newport, RI.  Seminars for each course meet one evening 
per week for approximately 34 weeks, commencing in early September 2017 and 
ending in May 2018.  Led by NWC adjunct faculty members, and supported by 
visiting NWC faculty, these courses replicate both the content and atmosphere 
of the resident courses of study.  Successful completion of all three courses 
results in the award of a College of Naval Command and Staff diploma, as well 
as credit for intermediate level JPME.  The FSP seminars at the 19 locations 
are conducted in-step with each other so it is possible for a student who is 
transferring to, or assigned temporary additional duty at another seminar 
location to attend class at that location.

4.  NWC accepts program applications from commissioned officers (active and 
reserve), selected Chief of Naval Operations designated command master chiefs 
(CNO-CMC), and civilian employees of the federal government, subject to the 
following eligibility requirements:

    a.  Members of the sea services (Navy, Marine Corps, and Coast Guard) in 
grade O-3 or above, while officers from other services must be in grade O-4 
or above.  In line with reference (a), CNO-CMCs are eligible for enrollment.  
Civilian employees of the federal government in the grade of GS-11 and above, 
or equivalent, are also eligible for enrollment.
    b.  All applicants must have previously earned at least a baccalaureate 
degree.

5.  Qualified individuals currently stationed in areas listed in paragraph 2, 
or those who expect transfer to those sites prior to 1 September 2017 are 
encouraged to apply.  More information is available and applications must be 
made at the NWC College of Distance Education website at 
http://www.usnwc.edu.  Once on the page, click on "Academics," then click on 
"College of Distance Education," then "Fleet Seminar."  The application 
period will open on 1 April 2017 and remain open until 2 June 2017.  NWC will 
make enrollment selections and accepted applicants will be advised of their 
enrollment selections status by mid-July 2017.

6.  Request widest dissemination of the above information in activity plans 
of the day, plans of the week, base newspapers, base cable TV, and any other 
available appropriate media.  Regional coordinators at the sites listed in 
paragraph 2 are requested to pass this information to all Army, Marine Corps, 
Air Force and Coast Guard units and all reserve units located within safe-
driving distance of their site.

7.  Points of contact are Ms. Kelly Folger, who can be reached at (401) 841-
6520/DSN 841, or via e-mail at fsp(at)usnwc.edu, Ms. Stephanie Brass, who can 
be reached at (401) 841-6519/DSN 841, or via e-mail at fsp(at)usnwc.edu and 
Professor Ronald Oard, who can be reached via e-mail at oardr(at)usnwc.edu.

8.  This message is canceled for record purposes on 2 June 2018.

9.  Released by Vice Admiral R. P. Burke, N1.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
