UNCLASSIFIED
ROUTINE
R 171234Z AUG 15
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC
BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 192/15

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/AUG//

SUBJ/RELEASE OF OPNAVINST 1752.1C, NAVY SEXUAL ASSAULT PREVENTION AND 
RESPONSE PROGRAM//

REF/A/DOC/DOD/20JAN15//
REF/B/DOC/DOD/12FEB14//
REF/C/DOC/SECNAV/08AUG13//
REF/D/DOC/OPNAV/29DEC06//
NARR/ REF A IS DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE DIRECTIVE 6495.01, SEXUAL ASSAULT 
PREVENTION AND RESPONSE (SAPR) PROGRAM.  REF B IS DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE 
INSTRUCTION 6495.02, SEXUAL ASSAULT PREVENTION AND RESPONSE (SAPR) PROGRAM 
PROCEDURES.  REF C IS SECNAVINST 1752.4B, SEXUAL ASSAULT PREVENTION AND 
RESPONSE.  REF D IS OPNAVINST 1752.1B, SEXUAL ASSAULT VICTIM INTERVENTION 
(SAVI) PROGRAM//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN announces the publication of OPNAVINST 1752.1C.

2.  This instruction is a complete revision and should be reviewed in its 
entirety.  It is in alignment with the National Defense Authorization Acts 
for Fiscal Years 2007 through 2014 requirements, Department of Defense policy 
and mandates, and references (a) through (c).  Additionally, the revision 
contains updates relating to safety assessment requirements, SAPR training 
requirements, retaliation initiatives, Reserve Component services, and 
availability of the Victims Legal Counsel program for adult sexual assault 
victims within Navy.

3.  Effective immediately, reference (d) and the following NAVADMINS are 
hereby canceled:
    a.  NAVADMIN 282/09 - Sexual assault prevention and response
    b.  NAVADMIN 096/10 - Sexual assault prevention and response quarterly 
update
    c.  NAVADMIN 132/12 - Expedited transfer procedures for service members 
who file unrestricted reports of sexual assault
    d.  NAVADMIN 272/12 - Reporting requirements for sexual assault
    e.  NAVADMIN 054/13 - Department of defense sexual assault advocate 
certification program
    f.  NAVADMIN 053/14 - Implementation of the deployed resiliency counselor 
program for CVN, LHD, and LHA commands
    g.  NAVADMIN 095/14 - Implementation of the Department of Defense sexual 
assault advocate certification program
    h.  NAVADMIN 014/15  Sexual assault incident response oversight (8-day) 
report
    i.  NAVADMIN 025/15  Updated guidance for the inclusion and command 
review of information on sex-related offenses in personnel service records
    j.  NAVADMIN 120/15  Certification standards for Navy sexual assault 
prevention and response program managers

4.  Point of contact:  Ms. Susan Sherman, N172 at 703-604-1156/DSN 664, or 
via e-mail at susan.l.sherman(at)navy.mil.

5.  Released by Vice Admiral W. F. Moran, N1.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
