UNCLASSIFIED
ROUTINE
R 051700Z MAY 17
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC
BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 111/17

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/MAY//

SUBJ/RECONVENING OF THE FY-18 NAVY ACTIVE-DUTY MASTER CHIEF ADVANCEMENT 
SELECTION BOARD (CORRECTED COPY)//

REF/A/MSG/CNO WASHINGTON DC/061652Z SEP 16//
REF/B/DOC/BUPERS/2NOV07//
NARR/REF A IS NAVADMIN 197/16, FY-18 NAVY ACTIVE-DUTY AND RESERVE ENLISTED 
ADVANCEMENT SELECTION BOARDS FOR MASTER CHIEF AND SENIOR CHIEF PETTY OFFICER.  
REF B IS BUPERSINST 1430.16F, ADVANCEMENT MANUAL FOR THE ENLISTED PERSONNEL 
OF THE U.S. NAVY AND U.S. NAVY RESERVE.//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN provides guidance for reconvening of the FY-18 Active-
Duty Master Chief Petty Officers (AE9) Advancement Selection Board that was 
suspended on 12 April 2017.  The FY-18 AE9 Board will reconvene on 24 July 
2017 and is scheduled to adjourn 4 August 2017 (2 weeks).  This message will 
address eligibility, High Year Tenure (HYT) waiver guidance, and 
communication to the board.  This corrected NAVADMIN provides revised board 
membership guidelines in paragraph 5.

2.  Eligibility Criteria.
    a.  All eligibility requirements established in references (a) and (b) 
apply.
    b.  All candidates eligible at the time of the original AE9 Boards 
suspension, remain eligible.
    c.  Members who have submitted voluntary Fleet Reserve 
(FLTRES)/retirement requests to NPC are not eligible.  Voluntary FLTRES are 
those not mandated by HYT.  Requests due to HYT are eligible for advancement 
and selection board consideration provided their HYT date for the present 
paygrade is 1 July 2017 or later per reference (a).
    d.  No additional candidates will be added to the eligibility list prior 
to reconvening of the FY-18 AE9 Board.
    e.  Loss of eligibility prior to reconvening, per references (a) and (b), 
will result in the candidate being removed from the eligibility list.
    f.  To verify eligibility, candidates must check their profile sheets 
available at https://prod.neas.netc.navy.mil/NEASRpts/Individual.aspx, via a 
.mil domain computer.

3.  High Year Tenure Waivers.
    a.  AE9 Board eligible SCPOs with a HYT date between 1 July 17 and 30 Nov 
17 may request a HYT waiver to 31 December 2017 to remain selection board 
eligible.
    b.  HYT waiver requests will be submitted no later than 30 June 17 via 
NAVPERS 1306/7 to Pers-802.  Reason for request:  To maintain eligibility for 
the FY-18 Active-Duty Master Chief Petty Officer Advancement Selection Board.
    c.  Email command endorsed requests to the PERS-802 points of contact 
listed in paragraph 6.b below, who will confirm AE9 Board eligibility and 
forward the request to BUPERS-32 for approval.

4.  Record review and communication with the AE9 Board.
    a.  Letter to the Board (LTB) submissions received in line with reference 
(a) are on file and will be available to the reconvened AE9 board.  
Additional LTBs, or updates to previously submitted LTBs, will not be 
accepted.
    b.  The eligible candidates official military personnel file (OMPF) 
documents that were provided to the original AE9 board are on file and will 
be provided to the reconvened AE9 Board.  No changes to OMPF documents since 
3 April 2017 will be provided to the board.

5.  Board membership.
    a. The reconvened AE9 board president will be a flag officer, and the 
remainder of the board will be comprised of a mix of Officers and Master 
Chief Petty Officers. This will include Fleet, Force and Command Master 
Chiefs, as well as in-rate Master Chiefs who will ensure current technical 
expertise is represented in the process.
    b. Active-duty post-command commanders (or above) are encouraged to 
contact their detailer to serve as a member of this board not later than 1 
June 2017.
    c. All interested Master Chiefs should complete an application and 
forward it to their FLTCM/FORCMs.  FLTCM/FORCMs should apply and 
complete/forward all subordinate command applications to PERS-805 at 
donald.p.marshall(at)navy.mil, not later than 1 June 2017.

6.  Points of Contact.
    a. NPC Customer Service Center: 866-U-ASK-NPC/866-827-5672 or via e-mail 
at UASKNPC(at)NAVY.MIL.
    b. Selection board eligibility (PERS-802):
        - LT Beau Blanchard:     beau.blanchard(at)navy.mil
        - Ms. Linda Coffield:    linda.coffield(at)navy.mil
        - Ms. Elizabeth Vaughn:  elizabeth.vaughn(at)navy.mil
    c.  NETPDC (N321): 850-473-6148/DSN 753 or via e-mail 
sfly_N321_discrepanc(at)navy.mil.
    d. BUPERS-32 (HYT Waivers):  darlene.mciver(at)navy.mil

7.  This message will remain in effect until superseded or canceled.

8.  Released by Vice Admiral R. P. Burke, N1.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
