UNCLASSIFIED//
ROUTINE
R 021445Z DEC 15
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 275/15

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/NOV//

SUBJ/CHANGE IN POLICY FOR APPOINTMENTS FOR LIMITED DUTY OFFICERS (CORRECTED 
COPY)//

REF/A/DOC/USCODE/5OCT94//
REF/B/DOC/SECNAV/20SEP11//
REF/C/DOC/BUPERS/2NOV07//
REF/D/DOC/COMNAVPERSCOM/31MAY05//
REF/E/DOC/OPNAV/14DEC09//

NARR/REF A IS SECTION 5589 OF TITLE 10, U.S. CODE, REGULAR NAVY AND REGULAR 
MARINE CORPS:  OFFICERS DESIGNATED FOR LIMITED DUTY.  REF B IS SECNAVINST 
1920.6C, ADMINISTRATIVE SEPARATION OF OFFICERS.  REF C IS BUPERSINST 
1430.16F, ADVANCEMENT MANUAL FOR ENLISTED PERSONNEL OF THE U.S. NAVY AND U.S. 
NAVY RESERVE.  REF D IS MILPERSMAN 1426-010, PERMANENT APPOINTMENT TO ACTIVE 
DUTY CHIEF WARRANT OFFICER AND LIMITED DUTY OFFICER STATUS.  REF E IS 
OPNAVINST 1420.1B, ENLISTED TO OFFICER COMMISSIONING PROGRAMS APPLICATION 
ADMINISTRATIVE MANUAL.//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN promulgates an update to the policy for temporary 
appointments of limited duty officers (LDO) who are eligible for permanent 
appointment per reference (a).

2.  Effective immediately, LDOs (and selects) will be offered permanent 
appointments as outlined below:
    a.  FY-16 LDO selects and all future LDO selects who will have 10 or more 
years of active naval service upon commissioning will be offered initial 
permanent appointments in the grade of ensign.
    b.  FY-16 LDO selects with less than 10 years of active naval service 
will be offered initial temporary appointments in the grade of ensign.
    c.  All current and future temporary LDO ensigns will be offered 
permanent appointments to the grade of lieutenant (junior grade) when 
selected for promotion.  All current temporary LDO lieutenants (junior grade) 
will continue to be offered permanent appointments to the grade of lieutenant 
when selected for promotion.
    d.  Any temporary LDO who declines permanent appointment will be 
processed for reversion to their permanent enlisted grade per reference (b).

3.  Additionally, effective immediately, paragraph 723 of reference (c) is 
deleted, terminating automatic enlisted advancements for the few remaining 
temporary LDOs.

4.  Appropriate changes will be incorporated into references (c) through (e) 
by future updates.

5.  Point of contact is Mr. Dave Booth, Navy Personnel Command (PERS-83B) at 
(901) 874-4490/DSN 882 or via e-mail at
dave.booth(at)navy.mil; or CAPT Mark Holley, Navy Personnel Command
(PERS-00J) at (901) 874-3159/DSN 882 or via e-mail at 
mark.holley(at)navy.mil.

6.  Released by Vice Admiral W. F. Moran, N1.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
