UNCLASSIFIED
ROUTINE
R 091422Z JUL 15
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC
BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 159/15

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N3N5/JUN//

SUBJ/ACADEMIC YEAR 2016-2017 FEDERAL EXECUTIVE FELLOWSHIP, U.S. NAVY HUDSON 
FELLOWSHIP, AND SECRETARY OF DEFENSE CORPORATE FELLOWS PROGRAM CALL FOR 
APPLICATIONS//

REF/A/DOC/CNO/22JUN2010//
REF/B/DOC/CNO/07JAN2015//
REF/C/DOC/N3N5/23JUL2014//
REF/D/DOC/CNO/141554ZJAN15//
NARR/Ref A is OPNAVINST 1500.72G, Navy Politico-Military Fellowship, Graduate 
Education Programs, and Community Sponsorship. Ref B is OPNAVINST 1520.23C, 
Graduate Education. Ref C is the approved slate of AY2015-2016 and 2016-17 
FEF institutions. Ref D is NAVADMIN 011/15, Establishment of the Naval 
Strategy Subspecialty 230X.//

Rmks/1. This is a call for applications for the Academic Year (AY) 2016-2017 
Federal Executive Fellowship (FEF), U.S. Navy Hudson Fellowship, and the 
Secretary of Defense Corporate Fellowship (SDCFP). Per references (a) and 
(d), the FEF program and the Hudson Fellowship are the Navy's primary means 
to develop Naval Strategists for utilization in key strategy and policy 
billets. The SDCFP provides a venue for exceptional officers to experience 
business innovation practices with the goal of incorporating those best 
practices into the Navy.

2. Navy Federal Executive Fellowship program. The FEF program provides 
selected officers an opportunity to improve their understanding of the 
national security decision-making process through assignment to world-class 
research organizations and academic institutions. Fellows will serve follow-
on tours in a number of critical strategy and policy, national security 
decision-making, and international engagement billets on major Joint and Navy 
staffs.
   a. Eligibility. All active duty unrestricted line officers (URL) as well 
as 1710, 1810, 1820, and 1830 officers in the grades of Lieutenant Commander 
to Captain are eligible to apply. Preference for selection will be given to 
officers with a 2000P (National Security) or 2300P/2301P (Naval Strategy) 
subspecialty-coded Master's degree and demonstrated interest and/or 
experience in national security strategy, policy, or politico-military 
affairs.
   b. Service obligation. Per reference (a), FEF graduates incur a service 
obligation that is three times the number of months of the fellowship. FEF 
tours are normally 10-12 months in length, depending on institution 
requirements. Federal Executive Fellows will serve at least one reutilization 
tour in a validated naval strategist billet in a major N5 or J5 staff billet 
as soon as possible, but not later than the second subsequent shore tour.
Some officers may serve in multiple strategy positions after the fellowship 
program, subject to career timing and on a not-to-interfere basis with their 
chosen warfighting specialty.
   c. Program specifics. Thirteen (13) officers will be selected for the 
AY2016-2017 fellowships at world-class academic institutions and non-profit 
research organizations, beginning in August 2016. In particular, FEF 
institutions value post-command Commanders and Captains very highly for their 
broad-based experience, leadership acumen, and ability to articulate Navy 
themes. Per references (a) and (d), URL officers who complete this fellowship 
program will receive the 2300S subspecialty code as well as the 240 
Additional Qualification Designation (AQD) code. Non-URL officers will 
receive the 2000S subspecialty code as well as the 240 AQD. Applicants must 
rank-order their preferences from the following list of FEF institutions as 
delineated in reference (c).
        (1) The Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy, Tufts
        University, Medford, MA. The Fletcher School will have
        an adjunct relationship with the United States Naval
        Institute (USNI) in Annapolis, MD.
        (2) Hoover Institution on War, Revolution, and Peace,
        Stanford University, Stanford, CA.
        (3) John F. Kennedy School of Government, Harvard
        University, Cambridge, MA. (Two fellows)
        (4) Washington Institute of Near East Policy,
        Washington, D.C. Regional interest in the Middle East is
        preferred but not required.
        (5) Security Studies Program, Massachusetts Institute of
        Technology (MIT), Cambridge, MA.
        (6) Triangle Center on Terrorism and Homeland Security,
        Duke University, Durham, NC. Special Warfare (1130)
        designator is preferred but not required.
        (7) Atlantic Council, Washington, D.C.
        (8) The Brookings Institution, Washington, D.C.
        (9) Center for a New American Security (CNAS),
        Washington, D.C.
        (10) Center for Strategic and International Studies
        (CSIS), Washington, D.C.
        (11) The Research and Development Corporation (RAND),
        Arlington, VA.
        (12) Johns Hopkins University Applied Physics Laboratory
        (JHU APL), Laurel, MD. Interest in technical innovation
        as it relates to national and maritime strategy is
        preferred but not required.

3. U.S. Navy Hudson Fellowship, University of Oxford, UK. The U.S. Navy 
Hudson Fellowship is the U.S. Navy counterpart to the Royal Navy's Hudson 
Fellowship at the University of Oxford. Saint Antony's College, which 
specializes in International Affairs, typically hosts the Hudson Fellow. The 
Hudson Fellow will be involved in the Changing Character of War (CCW) 
program, led by the History Faculty at Oxford. CCW brings together 
representatives of the British Armed Services, Government, and multinational 
organizations to provide practical knowledge in the interdisciplinary study 
of war and armed conflict.
   a. Eligibility. All active duty post-command Commander and Captain 
unrestricted line officers, as well as 1710, 1810, 1820, and 1830 officers in 
the grades of Commander and Captain are eligible to apply. In addition to the 
U.S. Navy's FEF screening board, a final screening and approval by the 
University of Oxford Governing Board is required. Applicants must include a 
2-page research proposal with their applications. The Oxford research 
proposal template can be found at the Naval Personnel Command's
website under Graduate Education Programs (PERS-440),
http://www.public.navy.mil/bupers-
npc/officer/Detailing/educationplacement/Pages/default.aspx.
   b. Service obligation. Per reference (a), Hudson fellowship graduates 
incur a service obligation that is three times the number of months of the 
fellowship. Hudson fellowship tours are normally 10-12 months in length. The 
Hudson Fellow will serve at least one reutilization tour in a validated naval 
strategist billet in a major N5 or J5 staff billet as soon as possible, but 
not later than the second subsequent shore tour. Some officers may serve in 
multiple strategy positions after the fellowship program, subject to career 
timing and on a not-to-interfere basis with their chosen warfighting 
specialty.
   c. Program specifics. One (1) officer will be selected for AY 2016-2017. 
The fellowship will begin in August 2016. Per references (a) and (d), URL 
officers who complete this program will receive the 2300S subspecialty code 
as well as the 240 AQD. Non-URL officers will receive the 2000S subspecialty 
code as well as the 240 AQD.

4. Secretary of Defense Corporate Fellowship (SDCFP). This one-year program 
was established in 1995 to provide a venue for exceptional officers to 
experience business innovation practices with the goal of incorporating these 
best practices into the Navy. Military fellows from each of the Services are 
paired with senior executives in various corporations known for their 
willingness to challenge and adapt their business practices. Fellows should 
expect follow-on assignment to positions involved in strategic management 
issues related to innovation and transformation.
   a. Eligibility. All active duty officers in the grades of Commander and 
Captain are eligible.
   b. Service obligation. Per reference (b), fellowship graduates incur a 
service obligation that is three times the number of months of the 
fellowship. SDCFP tours are normally 10-12 months in length, depending on 
corporate requirements.
   c. Program specifics. Up to two (2) Navy officers will be selected for 
Fiscal Year 2016. Fellowships will begin in July 2016. Past fellows have been 
assigned to corporations such as AMGEN, Boeing, CNN, CISCO, DuPont, FEDEX, 
Honeywell, IBM, Merck, Microsoft, Pfizer, Raytheon, and 3M. Officers who 
complete this program will receive the 2000S subspecialty code. More details 
regarding SDCFP can be found at http://dcmo.defense.gov/corporate-fellows-
program/.

5. Application procedures. Use reference (a), enclosure 1, for sample 
applications. Officers are encouraged to apply for all three fellowships as 
long as they are eligible. A single application for multiple programs is 
acceptable, with the multiple programs listed in the subject line. 
Applications require a curriculum vitae, biography, and endorsement letters 
from your Commanding Officer and detailer. Applications are due to Navy 
Personnel Command no later than 28 August 2015. The selection board will 
convene in early October 2015. Selection board results will be announced via 
a NAVADMIN in December 2015. Interested officers should submit applications 
via email to the NAVPERSCOM and OPNAV POCs listed at the end of this 
NAVADMIN. Prior to submission, ensure the electronic copies are clear, 
legible, and properly endorsed. If requested by POCs, send hard copies to:



Department of the Navy
Navy Personnel Command (PERS-440)
5720 Integrity Drive
Millington, TN.  38055-4400

6. Points of Contact:
   a. OPNAV: LT Jack Eaves (N515); DSN 260-4781 OR COMM
   571-256-4781; Email: jack.eaves(at)navy.mil.
   b. NAVPERSCOM: LCDR Angelin Graham; DSN 882-4056 OR COMM
   901-874-4056; Email: angelin.graham(at)navy.mil.
   c. OSD-SDCFP: Mr. Eric Briggs; (202) 409-3068; Email:
   steven.e.briggs2.civ(at)mail.mil.

7. Released by RADM Kevin M. Donegan, Deputy CNO, Operations, Plans and 
Strategy (N3/N5) Acting.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
