RTTZUYUW RUEWMCS0001 1211645-UUUU--RUCRNAD.
ZNR UUUUU

R 081628Z MAY 14--------------------------------------------------
UNCLASSIFIED/
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//
TO NAVADMIN
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//
UNCLAS//N01910//

NAVADMIN 103/14

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/MAY// 

SUBJ/ENLISTED EARLY TRANSITION PROGRAM//

REF/A/MSG/CNO WASHINGTON DC/ 232134Z/23DEC08//
REF/B/MSG/CNO WASHINGTON DC/212053Z/21APR11//
REF/C/MSG/CNO WASHINGTON DC/301644Z/30NOV12//
REF/D/DOC/BUPERSINST/11JUN10//
REF/E/DOC/COMNAVPERSCOM/21JUL12//
NARR/REF A IS NAVADMIN 369/08, ENLISTED EARLY TRANSITION PROGRAM 
ANNOUNCEMENT.  REF B IS NAVADMIN 142/11, POLICY UPDATE AND EXPANSION
OF ENLISTED EARLY TRANSITION PROGRAM.  REF C IS NAVADMIN 359/12, 
SUSPENSION OF ENLISTED EARLY TRANSITION PROGRAM.  REF D IS 
BUPERSINST 1900.8D, CERTIFICATE OF RELEASE OR DISCHARGE FROM ACTIVE 
DUTY (DD 214/DD 214C/DD 214WS AND DD 215).  REF E IS MILPERSMAN 
ARTICLE 1910-102, SEPARATION BY REASON OF CHANGES IN SERVICE 
OBLIGATION (ACTIVE DUTY AND INACTIVE NAVY RESERVIST).//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN announces changes to the Navy's Enlisted 
Early Transition Program (EETP).  Refs (a) through (c) are hereby 
cancelled.  Significant progress in balancing our enlisted force has
been made and we are well positioned for future missions.  In our 
efforts to keep the force in balance, we are reinstating the EETP 
with some modifications detailed herein.  Voluntary separation of 
Sailors in targeted ratings, Navy Enlisted Classifications (NEC), 
Year Groups (YG) and paygrades will ensure continued balance and 
aligning of the force as necessary.  

2.  Effective immediately, qualified enlisted Active Component (AC) 
Sailors may submit requests for early separation as outlined in this
NAVADMIN.  This new version solidifies EETP as an ongoing program 
that is quota-controlled and tailored to reduce the requirement for 
non-voluntary force management measures, thereby allowing greater 
opportunity for Sailors desiring to stay Navy.  EETP will now 
authorize early separation for eligible Sailors in competitive 
ratings up to 24 months prior to their extended Enlisted Active 
Obligate Service, or Soft EAOS (SEAOS).

3.  EETP Criteria and Submission Guidelines:  
     a.  As the final EETP approval authority, the Enlisted 
Community Manager (BUPERS-32) will balance the requested date of 
separation of each EETP applicant against the needs of the Navy to 
ensure proper alignment with the current or future Fiscal Year 
resources, manning and community health.  
     b.  Available EETP quotas are identified by rating, paygrade, 
YG and NEC.  A listing of available quotas is provided on the EETP 
webpage at http://www.public.navy.mil/bupers-npc/enlisted/
community/pages/eetp.aspx  Quotas will be reviewed periodically and
updated as required.  Early separation will be granted on a first 
come first serve basis until all quotas have been exhausted.
    c.  Qualified enlisted AC Sailors may submit requests for early 
separation to BUPERS-32, via their commanding officer (CO) up to 24 
months prior to their SEAOS.  When determining whether to positively
endorse a Sailor's request, CO's must carefully weigh the rating and
NEC manning of their unit, requestor's projected rotation date 
(PRD), inbound reliefs, projected operational schedule, etc.  
Commands recommending approval of early separation should not expect
an immediate relief.  Contact appropriate rating detailer to 
determine relief availability.
    d.  CO's maintain final disapproval authority and need not 
forward any requests to BUPERS-32 that they do not deem supportable.
    e.  Eligibility:  early separation requests will not be approved
for Sailors:
       (1) With existing Permanent Change of Station orders.
       (2) Identified to fill an individual augmentee assignment.
       (3) In nuclear ratings.
       (4) Assigned to a Department of Defense (DoD) area tour and 
who have not completed the DoD tour requirement, including 
Consecutive Overseas Tours or Overseas Tour Extension Incentive 
Program extensions for which a benefit has been received.  Waivers 
to DoD area tour lengths will not be granted under this program.
    f.  Sailors are reminded that requests to separate under EETP 
received by the ECMs will be handled on a case by case basis.  
Receipt alone of an EETP application does not guarantee approval.  
Other factors will be taken into consideration, to include Navy 
programs where the Sailor has agreed to serve additional obligated 
service, such as the Career Intermission Pilot Program. 
    g.  CO's may grant separation leave since this is an early 
release policy.  However, permissive temporary duty is not 
authorized in conjunction with this program.
    h.  Submission guidelines:  requests for early separation from 
qualified applicants shall be submitted via NAVPERS 1306/7 (Enlisted
Personnel Action Request) along with a signed NAVPERS 1070/613 
(Administrative Remarks) to BUPERS-32 via encrypted e-mail to 
eetp(at)navy.mil via the Sailor's CO.  Request must indicate desired
separation date.  Incomplete or unencrypted e-mail requests will be 
returned without action and will require resubmission.  NAVPERS 
1306/7 and 1070/613 are available via the EETP webpage.
    i.  Advancement:  Sailors who are approved for EETP will not be 
eligible for further advancement and should not participate in Navy 
Wide Advancement Exams or be nominated for any other programs that 
would lead to advancement after they have been approved for EETP.  
Cancellation of an approved EETP quota will not allow the Sailor to 
be retroactively eligible for any missed exams or establish 
eligibility for late exams. 

4.  Career Waypoint-Reenlistment (C-WAY-REEN):  Sailors who are 
within their C-WAY-REEN application window and are approved for EETP
will have their application status changed to reflect "Intends to 
Separate (ITS)" and any previous status provided will become 
obsolete.  For Sailors outside their C-WAY-REEN application window 
and who have received an EETP approval, BUPERS-32 will update the 
Sailor's C-WAY-REEN Initial Action Required (IAR) application 
status, if and once the Sailor enters the C-WAY-REEN window, to an 
"ITS" status.  Cancellation of an EETP request will require the 
Sailor to reapply in C-WAY-REEN for a reenlistment and/or conversion
approval.  EAOS extensions will not be approved solely for the 
purpose of reapplying in Career Waypoints (C-WAY).

5.  Recoupment of an Enlistment Bonus (EB) or a Selective 
Reenlistment Bonus (SRB):  Recoupment for the unserved portion of 
active-duty will be required for those who received such bonuses and
who are separated early under authority of this NAVADMIN.

6.  Benefits:
    a.  Montgomery GI bill (MGIB) (chapter 30).  Sailors Enrolled in
the MGIB program, who are honorably discharged/released from active 
duty under this program, may be entitled to 1 month of MGIB Benefits
for each full month served on active duty, up to a maximum of 36 
months.  Those discharged under this program who have served 20 
months of a 2-Year term of service, or 30 months of a 3-year or 
greater term of service, may receive a full 36 months of MGIB 
benefits.  This program does not authorize Sailors to enroll in MGIB 
if they previously declined MGIB or were not eligible for enrollment.
    b.  Post-9/11 Veterans Education Assistance Act of 2008 (chapter 
33).  Sailors with a minimum of 90 aggregate days or more 
active-duty, beginning on or after 11 September 2001, may be 
eligible to receive benefits for approved education pursued on or 
after 1 August 2009.  Full benefits may be available after 36 
aggregate months of qualifying active-duty service and are pro-rated
for those honorably discharged prior to completing 36 months of 
aggregate active duty.  Additionally, Sailors who have an obligation
as a result of transferring their Post-9/11 GI Bill entitlement to a
family member must fulfill that obligation.  If they choose to 
separate early under this program and have not completed the 
required obligation, VA will not pay benefits to the transferee and 
will recoup any benefits paid to the transferee.  
Visit http://www.benefits.va.gov/gibill/ for more information for 
further information.
    c.  Veterans benefits.  Those serving on active-duty for more 
than 180 days and who are separated under honorable conditions are 
normally eligible for all Veterans Affairs (VA) benefits, with the 
exception of VA home loan program benefits in which two years of 
active-duty service is required for eligibility.  Voluntary early 
separation for Sailors with less than two years active-duty is a 
disqualifying factor for this benefit.  Contact the local VA 
regional office for further information on benefits.  Commands shall
ensure a NAVPERS 1070/613 is signed stating the Sailor was briefed 
on the potential loss of VA benefits.

7.  Preparation of DD-214, additional guidance contained in 
reference (d).
    a.  Blk 23 (type of separation):  release from active duty, 
transferred to the Naval Reserve, or Discharged, as applicable.
    b.  Blk 24 (character of service):  Honorable or General (Under 
Honorable Conditions), as applicable.
    c.  Blk 25 (separation authority):  Reference (e) and this 
NAVADMIN.
    d.  Blk 26 (separation code):  use one of the following 
separation Codes:
        1) MCC - for Sailors who have not completed their initial 
8-year Military Service Obligation (MSO) and are being released from
active-duty and joining the Selected Reserve (SELRES).
        2) KCC - for Sailor who have completed their 8-year 
MSO and will be discharged from active-duty.
    e.  Blk 27 (reentry code):  as warranted by service record.
    f.  Blk 28 (narrative reason for separation):  reduction in 
force.

8.  NSIPS/DMRS.  The following Navy loss codes shall be used:
    a.  Released from active-duty with separation code MCC:
        1) 942 for USN personnel with honorable discharge.
        2) 943 for USNR personnel with honorable discharge.
    b.  Discharged with separation code KCC:
        1) 803 for USN personnel with honorable discharge.
        2) 813 for USNR personnel with honorable discharge.
        3) 842 for USN personnel with general (Under Honorable 
Conditions) discharge.
        4) 853 for USNR personnel with general (Under Honorable 
Conditions) discharge.

9.  Commands are responsible for ensuring Sailors separating under 
this program meet all transition requirements.  There is no 
separation incentive offered in conjunction with this early release.
Monetary transition benefits are not paid to those separating under 
this program.  

10.  Cancellation.  Requests for cancellation of an approved EETP 
separation will be considered on a case by case basis by BUPERS-32. 
Requests should be submitted on NAVPERS 1306/7 via encrypted e-mail 
to eetp(at)navy.mil.    

11.  Points of contact:
     a.  MGIB benefits questions:  Navy's GI bill programs branch at
(866) 827-5672, ext. 4258, or e-mail mill_gibill(at)navy.mil.
     b.  EB or SRB recoupment questions:  PERS-811 at 
(901) 874-3215/DSN 882 or EETP website at 
http://www.public.navy.mil/bupers-npc/enlisted/community/
pages/eetp.aspx
     c.  Process or submission questions:  EETP Program Manager, 
BUPERS-32 at (901) 874-2356/DSN 882 or e-mail at EETP 
eetp(at)navy.mil.
     d.  Navy personnel can also contact the Navy Personnel Command 
Call Center in Millington at 1(866) U-Ask-NPC, 1(866) 827-5672 or 
via e-mail, uasknpc(at)navy.mil with questions.

12.  This message will remain in effect until superseded or 
cancelled, whichever occurs first.

13.  Released by Vice Admiral W. F. Moran, N1.//
BT
#0001
NNNN

