UNCLASSIFIED//
ROUTINE
R 281633Z MAY 15
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 131/15

SUBJ/NAVY ATTENDANCE AT THE 2015 NAVY AND MARINE CORPS AIR TRAFFIC CONTROL 
(ATC) NATOPS, TRAINING AND PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT LEADERSHIP CONTINUUM//

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N9/MAY//

REF/A/DOC/DOD/06AUG1998//

AMPN/REF A IS DOD PUBLICATION 5500.07-R JOINT ETHICS REGULATION//
POC/DON SIGLEY/CDR/OPNAV/LOC:N980A/TEL:(703)695-8534//

RMKS/1.  Announcement of the Navy and Marine Corps Air Traffic Control
Leadership Continuum to be held on NAS Pensacola, FL, 14-16 July 2015.
This is an official event designed for Navy and Marine Corps Air Traffic 
Control (ATC) leadership and management.

2.  This forum provides senior air traffic control managers a venue to train, 
educate, and develop air traffic control community leaders on Federal 
Aviation Regulations, NATOPS sea and ashore, facility management, manpower, 
technical advances, operational enhancements, unmanned flight operations, and 
policy changes occurring in the air traffic control profession.  Topics to be 
discussed:  updates to Naval Aviation; Special Use Airspace, to include 
scheduling, encroachment, and authority; NAVAIR PMA update on equipment and 
budgets; Navy and Marine Corps manning and manpower; Detailer and Monitor 
briefs; TYCOM community updates ashore, afloat, and expeditionary; Federal 
Aviation Administration on current issues and managing the National Airspace 
System with focus on encroachment and airspace management challenges; 
USN/USMC Air Traffic Control Roadmap brief and update.

3.  Navy and Marine Corps ATC leadership participation from expeditionary 
units, facilities ashore and afloat is critical in order to effectively 
address Federal Aviation Administration, International Civil Aviation 
Organization, and Naval ATC policy and procedures which directly affect 
safety, training and operational readiness.

4.  Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Defense, and Department of 
the Navy managers who desire to make a presentation should contact CDR Joel 
Doane, joel.doane@navy.mil, (703) 614-2664.

5.  This is mission essential travel, per ref (a), Commanding Officers may 
issue orders for attendance at government expense.  Government expense should 
be minimized by limiting attendees to air traffic control officers, leading 
Chief Petty Officers, SNCOIC and briefers.

6.  On-base lodging shall be utilized for military attendees. Reservations 
can be made by calling (877) NAVY-BED and using block reservation code:  ATC 
LEADERSHIP CONTINUUM #30760106838.  TAD orders may cover expenses incident to 
attendance and participation including transportation and per diem per the 
Joint Travel Regulations.  No conference fee required.  Use of available 
government transportation is encouraged to enhance conference participation 
and to defray travel expenses.  Travel days are 13 and 17 July.

7.  Uniforms for this event:  Navy E7 and above:  Service Khaki; Marine 
Corps:  Service Charlie.

8.  Released by Vice Admiral J. P. Aucoin, Deputy Chief of Naval Operations 
Warfare Systems (N9)//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
