UNCLASSIFIED

ROUTINE

R 062002Z JUL 15

FM CNO WASHINGTON DC

TO NAVADMIN

INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC

NAVADMIN 157/15

BT
UNCLAS

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/JUL//

SUBJ/FY-17 NAVY SELECTED RESERVE LIMITED DUTY OFFICER AND CHIEF WARRANT 
OFFICER IN-SERVICE PROCUREMENT PROGRAM BOARDS//

REF/A/DOC/OPNAV/14DEC09//

REF/B/DOC/OPNAV/24DEC05//

REF/C/MSG/CNO WASHINGTON DC/171307ZSEP12//

REF/D/MSG/CNO WASHINGTON DC/131544ZDEC07//

REF/E/MSG/CNO WASHINGTON DC/091410ZFEB00//

NARR/REF A IS OPNAVINST 1420.1B, ENLISTED TO OFFICER COMMISSIONING PROGRAMS 
APPLICATION ADMINISTRATIVE MANUAL.  REFERENCE B IS OPNAVINST 1120.12, 
APPOINTMENT OF LIMITED DUTY OFFICERS (LDO) AND CHIEF WARRANT OFFICERS (CWO) 
FOR INACTIVE DUTY IN THE NAVY RESERVE.
REFERENCE C IS NAVADMIN 281/12, ADVANCED CHANGE NOTICE TO OPNAVINST 1420.1B, 
CHAPTER SEVEN, LIMITED DUTY OFFICER AND CHIEF WARRANT OFFICER APPLICATION 
INSTRUCTION AND POLICY.  REFERENCE D IS NAVADMIN 336/07, ADMINISTRATION OF 
THE NAVY-WIDE ADVANCEMENT EXAM FOR SAILORS IN IRAQ, AFGHANISTAN, AND THE HORN 
OF AFRICA.  REF E IS NAVADMIN 018/00, SPECIAL DUTY ASSIGNMENT PAY.//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN announces the solicitation of applications from highly 
qualified and motivated E-6 through E-9 Sailors for the
FY-17 Navy Selected Reserve LDO and CWO programs.  LDOs and CWOs bring a 
variety of experience and unique perspectives into the wardroom from their 
enlisted service.  LDO/CWO career paths provide additional leadership 
opportunities and enhance a Sailors ability to contribute to the Navy 
Reserve.  These programs deliver to the officer corps seasoned professionals 
with proven leadership abilities at an economical cost.  LDOs provide broad 
technical management and leadership skills, and CWOs provide specific 
technical expertise and leadership skills in support of the unrestricted 
line, restricted line, and staff corps communities.
LDOs and CWOs serve in a variety of leadership billets within their technical 
fields, ranging from division officers to commanding officers (COs).

2.  Eligible Sailors are encouraged to apply for the designators for which 
they are most qualified, regardless of current rating.  Refer to references 
(a) through (c) for eligibility criteria and application format.  For the 
most current information regarding application procedures, and board 
membership applications, visit the LDO/CWO webpage at 
http://www.npc.navy.mil/bupers-npc/officer/
communitymanagers/ldo_cwo/pages/references.aspx.

3.  The FY-17 Navy Selective Reserve LDO/CWO In-service Procurement Board 
will convene at a date to be determined in January 2016.  For the most 
current board dates, visit Navy Personnel Command (NPC) board webpage at 
http://www.npc.navy.mil/bupers-npc/boards/
selectionboardsupport/pages/default2.aspx and select FY-17 board schedule 
when available.  Applications must be received by the NPC Customer Service 
Center (CSC) NLT 1 October 2015.  Routine addendums to applications, 
excluding evaluations and awards, must be received NLT 1 December 2015.  
Evaluations and awards must be received NLT the day prior to the board 
convening.  Communication to the board must originate from the individual 
member.  Information received that is not under the applicants cover letter 
(e.g., third party
correspondence) or not received by the NPC CSC by the established deadline 
will not be presented to the board.  The time and date received in the NPC 
(central standard / daylight savings time) inbox is the time and date used 
for deadline verification.  Although a late letter to the board may be 
accepted by the NPC CSC, it will not be presented to the board.  All 
applications/addendums must have members full social security number on each 
page.  Applications must be mailed to NPC CSC.  Time sensitive submissions 
may be submitted electronically to cscselboard(at)navy.mil.  Electronic 
submissions must be sent using military e-mail accounts and be encrypted.  
Hard copy and electronic submissions must include command endorsement.  The 
application mailing address is:
    a.  Navy Personnel Command Customer Service Center
        President FY-17 Navy Selected Reserve Enlisted to Limited
        Duty Officer and Chief Warrant Officer In-service
        Procurement Program Board #315
        5720 Integrity Drive
        Millington TN 38055
    b.  Express mail:
        Navy Personnel Command Customer Service Center
        President FY-17 Navy Selected Reserve Enlisted to Limited
        Duty Officer and Chief Warrant Officer In-service
        Procurement Program Board #315
        5640 Ticonderoga Loop Bldg 768 RM E302
        Millington TN 38055

4.  Interview appraisal boards shall be constructed and approved by the 
CO/officer-incharge (OIC) and consist of a minimum of three naval officers 
(LDO/CWO, if available).  Every effort shall be used to ensure at least one 
board member is from the designator for which the applicant is applying 
(including but not limited to teleconference, video teleconference, defense 
connect online, etc.).
Minimum grade requirements for board members are lieutenant junior grade or 
CWO2 with two years time-in-grade.  A minimum of three (maximum of five) 
interview appraisals must be submitted for each applicant.  The Potential 
block on interview appraisals must be marked for LDO/CWO candidates.  Only 
the current version of the interviewers appraisal sheet (NAVCRUIT 1131/5 Rev 
02-2014) will be accepted.

5.  For applicants who have or are currently serving in individual 
augmentee/global support assignments (IA/GSA), include these tours in the 
assignment history section of the application.  COs/OICs recommendation must 
include validation of any listed IA/GSA assignment and the statement in 
reference (c), paragraph 3.

6.  Applicants currently serving on IA/GSA may have their application 
endorsed by their field commander.  All applications endorsed by field 
commanders must have their parent command concurrence.  Sample concurrence 
letter is located at http://www.npc.navy.mil/bupers-
npc/boards/administrative/ldo_cwo/
pages/default.aspx.

7.  Applicants must ensure copies of the most recent periodic evaluation are 
included in the application or later addendum for board review and 
continuity.  First class petty officers must submit their 15 November 2015 
evaluation via addendum.

8.  Time-in-service (TIS) for the FY-17 board must be computed to
1 October 2016.  Per references (a) and (b), TIS is synonymous with years of 
qualifying service toward a non-regular (reserve) retirement.

9.  Per reference (c), TIS eligibility is 8-14 years for LDO and
14-20 years for CWO.  However, TIS waivers will be considered and adjudicated 
on a case-by-case basis by the Head Reserve Officer Community Manager (OCM) 
(BUPERS-318).  Potential applicants, outside of the TIS eligibility window, 
are encouraged to contact the Reserve LDO/CWO OCM, in paragraph 17 of this 
NAVADMIN, to discuss TIS waiver opportunities.

10.  The Selected Reserve LDO/CWO Board will consider candidates for the 
following officer designators:
623X, 626X, 628X, 629X, 633X, 641X, 642X, 645X, 649X, 653X, 711X, 712X, 713X, 
715X, 716X, 717X, 742X, 744X, and 745X.
For up to date information concerning open designators, visit the community 
manager page at http://www.npc.navy.mil/bupers-npc/officer
/community managers/reserve/selres/pages/RCLDOCWO.aspx.

11.  Applicants must maintain eligibility throughout the selection and 
commissioning process.  Applicants that are deemed ineligible after the 
submission of applications must be declared ineligible by their current CO, 
field commander if on an IA or parent command CO.
A sample format is located at http://www.npc.navy.mil/bupers-npc/
boards/administrative/ldo_cwo/pages/default.aspx.

12.  Each applicant and command must ensure that applications are complete 
and accurate.  Incomplete applications could result in non-selection.  Refer 
to references (a), (chapters 2, 7, and appendix b),(c), and (f) for program 
overview, eligibility criteria, and application format.

13.  For the most up-to-date application process, visit the PERS-803 website 
at http://www.npc.navy.mil/bupers-npc/boards/administrative/
ldo_cwo/pages/default.aspx.  This site contains application assistance and a 
checklist to print and include in the application folder.  This site also 
contains guidance such as NPC CSC mailing info/receipts check link, how to 
monitor application status on BUPERS online after PERS-92 review, and how to 
reconcile application errors via addendum if items or corrections are 
required for completeness or eligibility.  To check for receipt of 
applications and addendums, applicants may call the NPC CSC at 1-866-U-ASK- 
NPC or check the NPC CSC online site by logging in at:
https://ahdsedstws16.ahf.nmci.navy.mil/OA_HTML/npc.html.

14.  Per reference (b), all applicants must include a statement on page 7 of 
OPNAV 1420/1 (Rev 01-08), agreeing to further service, as
follows:  I, [name], if selected for permanent appointment under the Navy 
Reserve LDO/CWO program, agree to accept such appointment and further agree 
to remain in the Ready Reserve for a period of 3 years after I accept such 
appointment.

15.  CO/OICs endorsement, located on page 10 of OPNAV 1420/1 (Rev 01-08), 
must contain the following statement:  "Applicant meets all requirements 
outlined in OPNAVINST 1420.1B, NAVADMIN 281/12, NAVADMIN XXX/15 (use the 
NAVADMIN # for this message), and the physical fitness standards of OPNAVINST 
6110.1J."

16.  First class petty officers serving in Iraq, Afghanistan, and the Horn of 
Africa that are determined chief petty officer board eligible in accordance 
with reference (d) or reference (e) are also eligible for LDO if all other 
eligibility requirements are met.

17.  Points of contact:
    a.  For application and eligibility questions, contact PSC Catherine 
Kuntz, PERS-92, at (901)874-3209/DSN 882 or via e-mail at 
catherine.kuntz(at)navy.mil.
    b.  General LDO/CWO career path and policy, contact  LCDR Ryan Mudd, 
Reserve LDO/CWO Officer Community Manager (OCM), at (901) 874-3291/DSN 882, 
or via e-mail at ryan.mudd(at)navy.mil.

18.  This message is canceled for record purposes 30 September 17.

19.  Released by Vice Admiral W. F. Moran, N1.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
