UNCLASSIFIED//

ROUTINE

R 141658Z MAR 16

FM CNO WASHINGTON DC

TO NAVADMIN

BT
UNCLAS
NAVADMIN 063/16

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGOTN DC/N1/APR//

SUBJ/BATTLE OF MIDWAY COMMEMORATION PLANNING ORDER//

REF/A/DOC/CNO/21DEC2012OPNAVINST 5726.8A//

AMPN/REF A IS THE OPNAVINST 5726.8A OUTREACH:  AMERICA'S NAVY//

RMKS/1.  4 June 2016 will mark the 74th anniversary of the Navy's and the 
Nation's most historically significant naval victory.  The Battle of Midway 
(BOM) occurred 3-7 June 1942 and changed the tide of war in the Pacific and 
the course of world history.  This order provides initial guidance and tasks 
for the global execution and planning of this important commemoration.

2.  In support of reference (a), execute a commemorative event commensurate 
with the importance of the BOM for our Navy and Nation.

3.  Commander's Intent:

    a.  Purpose:  Serve as a commemoration of our Navy's greatest victory.  
Specifically, the commemoration will:
        (1) Engage the American public on how the Navy has been critical to 
our Nation's defense.
        (2) Connect and inspire the current generation of Sailors with those 
who fought in this great battle.  Pass to the current generation the heroics, 
stories of sacrifice and courage of those who fought this great battle.
        (3) Provide a vehicle for understanding the past in order to inform 
the present and lead us into the future.
    b.  Method:  Command Centered execution of a coordinated Navy-wide BOM 
commemoration.
        (1) Utilize all Navy outreach assets to maximum extent possible.
        (2) Be guided by, and supportive of, the Navy's strategic messaging.
    c.  End State:  The BOM commemoration becomes an institutionalized 
community outreach and a Navy pride event observed by the fleet around the 
world.

4.  Tasks:
    a.  Director, Navy Staff (DNS) will oversee planning and program 
development for the annual BOM commemoration.
    b.  Naval History and Heritage Command (NHHC):
        (1) Coordinate and support the execution of Midway commemoration 
events to include the execution of a Navy-wide observation and supporting 
community outreach events.
        (2) Establish a Working Group (WG) of key stakeholders to oversee 
planning and program development for the BOM commemoration.
            (a) Director, NHHC will serve as chairman of the BOM WG.
            (b) Provide DNS with a program for the execution of the BOM 
commemoration not later than (NLT) 15 April 2016.
        (3) Develop a commemoration toolkit for use by Commander, U.S.
Fleet Forces Command (COMUSFLTFORCOM), Commander, U.S. Pacific Fleet 
(COMPACFLT), Commander, Navy Installations (CNIC), Regional Commanders, 
Commanding Officers (COs), and Officers in Charge (OIC).
            (a) Develop and make available a body of lessons learned at the 
tactical, operational, and strategic levels from previous BOM commemorations.
            (b) Post all documents and associated points of contact on the 
NHHC website, WWW.HISTORY.NAVY.MIL NLT 1 May 2016.
        (4) Compile Midway lessons learned from other stakeholders and 
provide to DNS NLT 15 July 2016.
    c.  COMUSFLTFORCOM; COMPACFLT; CNIC; Commander, Navy Reserve Force 
Command (COMNAVRESFORCOM); Commander, Naval Education and Training Command; 
and Commander, Naval Recruiting Command:
        (1) Provide representatives as necessary to support the BOM WG.
        (2) Ensure COs and OICs plan for and commemorate the 74th anniversary 
of the BOM.
        (3) Execute the Chief of Naval Information (CHINFO) BOM Communication 
Plan and participate in planned community outreach activities as 
operationally feasible.
        (4) Provide BOM lessons learned to NHHC NLT 5 July 2016.
    d.  CHINFO:
        (1) Provide representatives to the BOM WG.
        (2) Develop a Midway communication Plan, including public affairs 
guidance, in coordination with NHHC and provide to ashore and afloat commands 
by 6 May 2016.  This plan should include Navy's strategic message and talking 
points for this event.
        (3) Provide Midway lessons learned to NHHC NLT 5 July 2016.

5.  Coordinating Instructions:
    a.  Additional coordination instructions and tasking to be provided by 
separate correspondence (SEPCOR) as plans develop.

6.  Administrative:
    a.  The Midway toolkit will be available at the NHHC website
(WWW.HISTORY.NAVY.MIL) NLT 1 May 2016.
    b.  Public Affairs Guidance:
        (1) This is an active public affairs posture event.
        (2) Public affairs guidance will be provided SEPCOR.

7.  Point of contact (POC):
    a.  NHHC POC is Ms. Katherine Sequeira, at comm:  (202) 433-7880
DSN: (288) 433-7880 or via email:  katherine.sequeira(at)navy.mil.

8.  Released by Vice Admiral R. L. Thomas, Director, Navy Staff.

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//

