UNCLASSIFIED//

ROUTINE

R 251858Z FEB 16

FM CNO WASHINGTON DC

TO NAVADMIN

INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC

BT
UNCLAS
NAVADMIN 046/16

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/FEB//

SUBJ/MATERNITY AND CONVALESCENT LEAVE POLICY UPDATE//

REF/A/LTR/DTM 16-002/5FEB16//

REF/B/DOC/DOD/16JUN09//

REF/C/MSG/SECNAV WASHINGTON DC/021900ZJUL15//

REF/D/MSG/CNO WASHINGTON DC N1/051649ZAUG15//

REF/E/DOC/COMNAVPERSCOM/31MAR11//

REF/F/DOC/OPNAV/14JUN07//

REF/G/DOC/OPNAV/11JUL11//

NARR/ REF A IS A DIRECTIVE-TYPE MEMORANDUM (DTM) 16-002, DOD-WIDE CHANGES TO 
MATERNITY LEAVE.  REF B IS DODINST 1327.06, LEAVE AND LIBERTY POLICY AND 
PROCEDURES.  REF C IS ALNAV 053/15, DEPARTMENT OF THE NAVY MATERNITY AND 
CONVALESCENT LEAVE POLICY.  REF D IS NAVADMIN 182/15, MATERNITY AND 
CONVALESCENT LEAVE POLICY.  REF E IS NAVPERS 15560D, NAVAL MILITARY PERSONNEL 
MANUAL (MILPERSMAN).  REF F IS OPNAVINST 6000.1C, NAVY GUIDELINES CONCERNING 
PREGNANCY AND PARENTHOOD.  REF G IS OPNAVINST 6110.1J, PHYSICAL READINESS 
PROGRAM.//

RMKS/1.  In accordance with the 28 January 2016 Secretary of Defense 
announcement regarding maternity leave as outlined in reference (a), this 
NAVADMIN updates Navy maternity leave policy previously promulgated in 
references (b) through (d).  This NAVADMIN will be followed by updates to 
references (e) through (g), including the release of a new MILPERSMAN article 
addressing maternity leave.

2.  Eligibility.
    a.  This new maternity leave policy applies to active component members, 
and Reserve component members serving on call or orders to active service for 
a continuous period of at least 12 months.
    b.  Date of pregnancy, which determines whether the member is eligible 
for 12 or 18 total weeks of leave, shall be determined by a privileged health 
care provider.

3.  Sailors, including eligible members of the Reserve component, who are 
pregnant or experience a birth event on or before March 3, 2016, will be 
entitled up to 18 weeks of maternity leave.

4.   Navy members who become pregnant after 3 March 2016 will be entitled to
84 total days of non-chargeable maternity leave.  The leave must be taken in 
a single block of 84 days, consecutively and immediately following a birth 
event or release from hospitalization following a birth event, whichever is 
later.

5.  For Navy members whose maternity leave or additional maternity leave
(AML) was approved by their commanding officers on or before 3 March 2016, or 
who are pregnant or experience a birth event on or before 3 March 2016, the 
policy established in reference (d) applies.  That is, mothers may be granted 
up to 126 total days of leave (42 days of convalescent/maternity leave and up 
to 84 days of AML and may take the AML in multiple blocks as allowed by 
reference (d)).  Maternity leave that is not used within a year of the childs 
birth will be lost.  AML shall be calculated based on work days, per 
reference (d) paragraph 7a.

6.  Definition of birth event.  Any birth of a child(ren) to a female member 
wherein the child(ren) is/are retained by the mother.  For purposes of this 
NAVADMIN, multiple children resulting from a single pregnancy (e.g., twins or 
triplets) will be treated as a single event so long as the multiple births 
occur within the same 72-hour period.

7.  Members who give birth but do not retain custody of the child are 
eligible for convalescent leave as prescribed by their health care provider.

8.  Eligible Reserve Component members will be extended on active duty at 
their request for the purposes of taking maternity leave.

9.  Adoption leave and parental leave policies remain unchanged and will 
continue to be administered in accordance with references (b) and (f).

10.  No member shall be disadvantaged in her career, including limitations in 
her assignments (except in the case where she voluntarily agrees to accept an 
assignment limitation), performance appraisals, or selection for professional 
military education or training, solely because she has taken maternity leave.

11.  Tracking of maternity leave and AML.
    a.  For commands on e-Leave in Navy Standard Integrated Personnel System 
(NSIPS), members will request the maternity leave type for both maternity 
leave and AML.  Command leave administrators shall run the e-Leave type 
report regularly to ensure the authorized days of maternity or AML as listed 
in paragraphs 4 and 5 are not exceeded.
    b.  Commands not on e-Leave with NSIPS will manually track maternity 
leave and AML until the command begins utilizing e-Leave.

12.  Point of contact for this matter is LT Amy Younger, N130C2, at
(703) 604-5477/DSN 664 or via e-mail at NXAG_N130C(at)NAVY.MIL.

13.  Released by Vice Admiral W. F. Moran, N1.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//

