UNCLASSIFIED

ROUTINE

R 251921Z MAY 18

FM CNO WASHINGTON DC

TO NAVADMIN

INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC

BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 136/18

PASS TO OFFICE CODES:
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//DNS//

MSGID/NAVADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/DNS/MAY//

SUBJ/REPORTING GUIDANCE FOR GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE AUDITS//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN announces guidance for staffing, reporting, and 
recommendation implementation requirements of all Government Accountability 
Office (GAO) audits.

2.  Naval Inspector General (NAVIG) recently completed a deep dive of the 
Navy GAO Audit process.  The results revealed that our existing process does 
not provide sufficient visibility of the audit process, does not provide 
results to the accountable leaders, and does not provide adequate oversight 
of recommendations being implemented as a result of GAO reports.

3.  Effective immediately, upon receipt of GAO notification of an audit, 
NAVIG will reach out via DON Tracker to affected agencies /commands to notify 
and solicit a command Primary Accountable Officer (PAO).  The accountable 
activity/command will inform their ECH2 regarding the initiation of an audit.

4.  Upon receipt of the draft and final reports from GAO, NAVIG will task the 
review of the draft and final report to the previously designated PAO.  The 
PAO will provide an assessment of recommendations, determining whether to 
take action on, or non-concur with, recommendations proposed by the GAO.  
This assessment will be routed to the PAO's ECH2, who will report to CNO, 
VCNO, and DNS.  The cognizant ECH2 will keep CNO, VCNO, and DNS updated on 
actions taken s a response to recommendations identified by GAO, including 
POA&Ms to bring items to closure.  This process will give Navy leadership 
end-to-end visibility on all audits from initiation to implementation and 
assessment of all recommendations.

5.  NAVIG will maintain a database of all GAO audits until they are closed-
out.  At a minimum, this database will include the Audit Number, Final/Draft 
Report Number, the Audit topic, the announcement date, the date NAVIG 
received the announcement, the PAO and Cognizant ECH2, the date the draft 
report is received, the date the final report is received, the date the 
report is closed out, and any additional comments.  NAVIG will coordinate 
with cognizant PAOs and the GAO to track close-out of reports when complete.

6.  For questions please contact CAPT W. M. Triplett, (703) 692-9026.

7.  Released by Mrs. Steffanie B. Easter, Director, Navy Staff (Acting).//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
