UNCLASSIFIED//

ROUTINE

R 221647Z AUG 14 PSN 533894K32

FM CNO WASHINGTON DC

TO NAVADMIN

BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 194/14

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/DNS/AUGUST//

SUBJ/ESTABLISHMENT OF THE NAVY GOLD STAR PROGRAM//

REF/A/DOC/DOD INSTRUCTION 1300.18, PERSONNEL CASUALTY MATTERS, POLICIES, AND 
PROCEDURES JAN 2008.

REF/B/DOC/FY06 NDAA SEC 562/01JAN2006//

NARR/REF A IS DODI 1300.18, PERSONNEL CASUALTY MATTERS, POLICIES, AND 
PROCEDURES, DIRECTING THE ESTABLISHMENT OF CENTRALIZED LONG-TERM CASUALTY 
ASSISTANCE TO SURVIVORS AND NEXT OF KIN OF MEMBERS OF THE ARMED FORCES WHO 
DIE WHILE ON ACTIVE DUTY.  REF B IS NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT (NDAA) 
OF FY06 WHICH PROVIDES POLICIES AND PROCEDURES ON CASUALTY ASSISTANCE TO 
SURVIVORS OF MILITARY DECENDENTS.

RMKS/1. This NAVADMIN announces the establishment of the Navy Gold Star (NGS) 
program. The NGS program will provide long-term casualty assistance for 
surviving families of deceased service members.

2. Fleet and Family Support Centers (FFSCs) will serve as the key touch point 
for Gold Star Families (GSF) seeking information and referral service 
assistance. Services are coordinated by NGS Coordinators and may consist of a 
combination of government and non-government programs and organizations (i.e. 
Chaplain services, personal financial counseling, school liaison assistance, 
clinical counseling).

3. Personnel eligible to participate in the NGS program include the widow, 
parents and the next of kin. The term "widow" includes widower ; the term 
"parents" includes mother, father, stepmother, stepfather, mother through 
adoption, father through adoption, and foster parents who stood in loco 
parentis; the term "next of kin" only includes children, brothers, sisters, 
half-brothers, and half-sisters; and the term "children" includes 
stepchildren and children through adoption.

4. Region Gold Star Coordinators (RGSC) will be assigned to all Contiguous 
United States (CONUS) regions and Navy Region Hawaii.
RGSCs will be responsible for executing the NGS Program throughout their area 
of responsibility. Installation Gold Star Coordinators
(IGSC) will be assigned to certain installations (based on Survivor
population) to serve as long-term advocates and points of contact for 
Survivors. IGSCs will be responsible for developing and coordinating 
appropriate partnerships with civilian and military service providers to 
deliver comprehensive support and referral services.

5. Our fallen military members have made the ultimate sacrifice and we are 
committed to providing surviving family members enduring support through our 
NGS Program.

6. Points of contact are Matt Straughan, CNIC (N91) at (202) 433-4617/DSN 288 
or via email at matt.straughan(AT)navy.mil; and Mike Bruner, CNIC (N912) at 
(202) 433-2944/DSN 288 or via email at mike.bruner(AT)navy.mil.

7. Released by Vice Admiral S. H. Swift, Director, Navy Staff.//

BT
#6638
NNNN

