UNCLASSIFIED
ROUTINE
R 281535Z FEB 17
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC
BT
UNCLAS
PASS TO OFFICE CODES:
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//

NAVADMIN 050/17

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/FEB//

SUBJ/FY-18 PERMANENT MILITARY PROFESSOR SELECTION BOARD//

REF/A/DOC/OPNAV/16MAY13//
AMPN/REF A IS OPNAVINST 1520.40B, PERMANENT MILITARY PROFESSOR PROGRAM.//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN announces the Permanent Military Professor (PMP) 
Selection Board for officers matriculating in graduate school in August 2018.  
Selection for PMP will be made by an institutional screening board, chaired 
by the Superintendent, United States Naval Academy (USNA), which will select 
from qualified officers who submit completed applications.

2.  Reference (a) provides specific application and eligibility guidance.  
Applications are due to Commander, Navy Personnel Command, Graduate Educate 
and Training Division (PERS-440) no later than 15 April 2017.  Applications 
should be transmitted via encrypted e-mail to:  PERS-440_ 
submit.fct(at)navy.mil.  Utilize enclosures (4) and (5) of reference (a) to 
submit application. Alternatively, applications may be mailed to:

    Department of the Navy
    Navy Personnel Command (PERS-440)
    5720 Integrity Drive
    Millington, TN 38055-4400

In addition to the eligibility requirements in reference (a), these 
additional restrictions apply:
    a.  Captains and captain selects are not eligible to apply.
    b.  Full-Time Support officers are eligible to apply for a maximum of one 
INDEF recall board quota.
    c.  Applicants must have completed at least one year at their current 
command by July 2018.  Officers serving in a designated joint billet must 
have completed at least 22 months by July 2018.
    d.  Officers who are committed to a specific community through a 
continuous pay agreement (e.g., Nuclear Officer Incentive Pay, Aviation 
Career Continuation Pay) or a similar service agreement must be within one 
year of completion of the agreed upon service obligation by August 2017.  
Applicants should reference all policies governing their specific agreement 
and contact their respective program manager to verify eligibility for 
release.

3.  The FY-18 PMP Selection Board may select up to a total of 10 PMPs for 
assignment to USNA from the following 14 fields (Doctor of Philosophy Degree 
Study Location  Discipline):
    a.  Civilian institutions (CIVINS)/Naval Postgraduate School (NPS)  
Mechanical Engineering,
    b.  CIVINS  Naval Architecture,
    c.  CIVINS  Ocean Engineering,
    d.  CIVINS  Nuclear Engineering,
    e.  NPS - Mathematics (Operations Research),
    f.  CIVINS  History,
    g.  CIVINS/NPS  Electrical and Computer Engineering,
    h.  CIVINS  Language Acquisition (French/German),
    i.  CIVINS/NPS  Applied Mathematics,
    j.  CIVINS  Chemistry,
    k.  CIVINS/NPS  Physics,
    l.  Air Force Institute of Technology (AFIT)  Aeronautical Engineering,
    m.  CIVINS  Computer Science/Information Technology, and
    n.  CIVINS  Cyber Operations (Electrical Engineering/Computer Science).

4.  The FY-18 PMP Selection Board may select up to two PMPs for enrollment at 
a civilian institution with assignment to the Naval War College from the 
following fields:
    a.  CIVINS  Political Science (International Relations, Comparative 
Politics, Security Studies, Political Economy, or U.S. Foreign Policy)
    b.  CIVINS  Leadership Theory

5.  Reference (a) provides specific guidance concerning qualifying CIVINS.  
Additional discipline(s) may be selected at board subject to changes in PMP 
requirements.  Changes may be announced on the Navy Personnel Command hosted 
PMP Officer Community Manager (OCM) page.

6.  Applicants for disciplines taught at NPS are required to apply to NPS at:  
https://my.nps.edu/web/admissions/apply1 no later than 15 April 2017.  In 
addition to the online application, the documentation outlined at 
https://my.nps.edu/web/admissions/doctoral must be submitted to the NPS 
Admissions Office no later than 15 April 2017.

7.  Applicants for disciplines taught at AFIT should apply online by 
visiting:  https://www.afit.edu/ADMISSIONS/ and click on apply online for 
instructions and the online admissions form.  The online admissions form, 
official transcripts, and Graduate Record Examination/Graduate Management 
Admissions Test scores should be received no later than 15 April 2017.  
Questions should be directed to a3ps(at)afit.edu or (937) 255-6565 extension 
3184.

8.  To ensure an adequate return on the education investment in PMP officers, 
the following year group (YG) eligibility restrictions apply:
    a.  YG-00 and junior for commander or commander select without a 
doctorate of philosophy (PhD).
    b.  YG-99 for commander applicants without a PhD coming directly out of 
command tour of an operational unit by July 2017.
    c.  YG-96 and junior for commander or commander selects with a PhD.

9.  OCMs will determine designators and YGs that are eligible to transfer a 
limited number of officers to the PMP community.  OCMs will review all PMP 
applicants to ensure eligibility guidelines have been met prior to releasing 
the applicant to the board.

10.  The following draft plan of the day/plan of the week note is provided 
for use:  There is a continued need for warfare qualified Naval Officers to 
serve as long-term officer-instructors at the USNA.  The PMP community 
provides doctoral degree opportunities for selected commanders who will serve 
as instructors until their statutory retirement.  The deadline for 
applications for the FY-18 PMP Selection Board is 15 April 2017 with officers 
matriculating into graduate school or being assigned as an instructor in 
August 2018.

11.  The PMP point of contact for eligibility requirements is LCDR Ian Lopez, 
PERS-440,  who can be reached at (901) 874-4067/DSN 882 or via e-mail at 
ian.lopez(at)navy.mil.  The PMP Community Manager is CDR Rajashaker Reddy, 
BUPERS-314, who can be reached at (901) 874-4049/DSN 882 or via e-mail at 
rajashaker.reddy(at)navy.mil.  The NPS point of contact for information 
concerning academic eligibility to pursue a doctoral degree is the admissions 
officer at (831) 656-3093/DSN 756 or via e-mail at admissions(at)nps.edu (use 
PMP PhD as the subject line).

12.  This NAVADMIN will remain in effect until superseded or canceled, 
whichever occurs first.

13.  Released by Vice Admiral R. P. Burke, N1.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
