UNCLASSIFIED//

ROUTINE

R 262109Z NOV 19 MID510000735827U

FM CNO WASHINGTON DC

TO NAVADMIN

INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC

BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 266/19

MSGID/NAVADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/CNO/OCT//

SUBJ/PASSING OF ADMIRAL JAMES L. HOLLOWAY III, USN (RET), 20TH CHIEF OF NAVAL 
OPERATIONS//

RMKS/1.  It is with deep sadness that I report the passing of Admiral James 
L. Holloway III, USN, on 26 November 2019.  Admiral Holloway served our Navy 
with honor and distinction for 36 years, culminating in his appointment as 
the 20th Chief of Naval Operations.  He led the Navy from 1974 to 1978, 
during a period of immense change, including the end of the Vietnam War and 
the creation of the all-volunteer force.  Facing the threat of a growing 
blue-water Soviet fleet, Admiral Holloway reorganized our forces into battle 
groups-exploiting the advantages of our surface combatants-and pushed back 
against the Soviet Navy and rogue nations of the day.

2.  Admiral Holloway's long tenure of service was marked by combat, 
personifying our values of honor, courage, and commitment.  He graduated the 
Naval Academy in June of 1942 as a member of the first three-year class 
accelerated by World War II.  He was gunnery officer on the destroyer BENNION 
(DD 662) during the Battle of Surigao Strait when his ship torpedoed the 
battleship YAMASHIORO at point-blank range, sank a Japanese destroyer with 
gunfire, and shot down three Zeroes.  During the Korean War, he earned the 
Distinguished Flying Cross flying the F9F-2 Panther in combat and received a 
battlefield promotion to command Fighting Squadron 52.
He commanded the USS ENTERPRISE (CVAN 65) from 1965 to 1967, completing two 
cruises in the Gulf of Tonkin.  His wartime commands culminated in leading 
SEVENTH Fleet in 1972, which numbered more than 150 ships including six 
aircraft carriers.  During his command, SEVENTH Fleet supported Operations 
LINEBACKER I and II, which helped persuade North Vietnam to accept a cease-
fire agreement.

3.  A man of profound commitment, Admiral Holloway continued to serve his 
country and our Navy after his time in uniform drew to a close.  During the 
1980s, he directed the President's Task Force on Combatting Terrorism; served 
as a special envoy to the Middle East; and was a commissioner on multiple 
Presidential commissions concerning our Armed Forces.  He also served as 
President and Chairman for the Naval Historical Foundation for 28 years and 
led the U.S. Naval Academy Foundation for seven years-preserving our heritage 
for future generations.

4.  Admiral Holloway enjoyed 77 wonderful years of marriage to his lovely 
wife Dabney Rawlings Holloway.  He is survived by her, his two daughters-Jane 
Holloway and Lucy Lyon, and his grandson Graham Eynon-Holloway.  He was a 
true warrior, man of honor, and committed patriot.  He will be sorely missed 
by our entire Navy family.

5.  Released by Admiral Michael M. Gilday, Chief of Naval Operations.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//

