RTTUZYUW RUEWMCS0176 2171950-UUUU--RUCRNAD
ZNR UUUUU
R 051950Z AUG 14 PSN 271825K25
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//
BT
UNCLAS//N07220//

SUBJ/ANNUAL RECERTIFICATION OF SPECIAL DUTY ASSIGNMENT PAY//

NAVADMIN 176/14

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/AUG//
REF/A/DOC/OPNAV/29DEC06//
REF/B/DOC/OSD/10APR09//
REF/C/MSG/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/071311ZJUL14//
NARR/REF A IS OPNAVINST 1160.6B, SPECIAL DUTY ASSIGNMENT PAY (SDAP) PROGRAM.  
REF B IS DOD INSTRUCTION 1304.27, AWARD AND ADMINISTRATION OF SPECIAL DUTY 
ASSIGNMENT PAY.  REF C IS NAVADMIN 156/14, SPECIAL DUTY ASSIGNMENT PAY.//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN announces the annual Special Duty Assignment Pay 
(SDAP) recertification process for FY-14 and retroactive payment procedure 
changes.  This process is critical to ensure the Navy accurately compensates 
Sailors for serving in uniquely challenging assignments.  Per refs (a) and 
(b), commanding officers (CO) are required to annually review and certify 
each Sailors entitlement to SDAP.  This certification is to verify every 
Sailor who is assigned to an eligible billet remains qualified to fill the 
billet and is receiving the correct SDAP.  Certification shall commence upon 
the release of this NAVADMIN and continue through 30 September 2014. Per ref 
(a), commands that do not complete the required certification by 30 September 
2014 will have their Sailors SDAP terminated retroactive to 1 June 2014.  A 
complete list of authorized skills and pay amounts can be found at:
http://www.public.navy.mil/bupers-
npc/career/payandbenefits/sdap/Pages/CurrentSDAPRates.aspx.

2.  To verify if a Sailor is eligible and receiving the correct level of 
SDAP, refer to ref (a), and http://www.public.navy.mil/bupers-
npc/career/payandbenefits/sdap/Pages/CurrentSDAPRates.aspx.

3.  Follow these procedures to certify the special pay (SP) section of the 
Enlisted Distribution and Verification Report (EDVR):
    a.  Obtain and print the SP section of the EDVR.  The SP section only 
pulls those Sailors that are currently drawing SDAP.
    b.  Verify your command as a whole and make changes as follows:
        (1) Add any Sailors who are eligible for SDAP, but not listed in the 
SP section of the EDVR.  To add, simply handwrite or type the name, rate, 
effective date, and level on the bottom of the SP section of the EDVR.  If 
there is not enough space you can do one of two things:
            (a) Attach a list on command letterhead; or
            (b) Make a copy of the top portion of the SP section and use that 
as a secondary page for your additions. 
        (2) Draw a line through any Sailor who has not reported and are on 
the SP section as a prospective gain.  These Sailors are currently drawing 
SDAP at their current command and will be certified by that unit 
identification code (UIC).
        (3) Draw a line through any Sailor who is no longer eligible and put 
a brief description as to why they are no longer eligible 
(transfer/separation/loss of Navy Enlisted Classifications).
        (4) Verify levels per ref (c), and draw a line through listed level 
and replace with new level as required.
        (5) The COs original signature must be on each page of the SP section 
accompanied by the following statement:  "After review, I certify that all 
required additions and changes have been annotated and all Sailors at this 
command are receiving the correct SDAP entitlement."  This statement can be 
handwritten, typed, or put on with a label.  A cover letter is not required, 
and only recommended if the command needs more space for Sailors added.
        (6) List a point of contact, in the top right hand corner of the 
first page of the SP section.
        (7) Send the SP section via encrypted e-mail to PSC(SW/AW) Marie 
Bates at marie.bates(at)navy.mil.  If you are having trouble sending 
encrypted e-mail, send an e-mail to PSC(SW/AW) Bates so you can be added to 
the contact list.  E-mail subject line should read: Encryption request for 
UIC, POC:  name and phone number and/or e-mail address.  E-mail is the 
preferred method, but if you need to send via regular mail, please send to: 

    Navy Personnel Command
    ATTN:  PSC Marie Bates (PERS 81)
    5720 Integrity Drive
    Millington, TN 38055-0130. 

        (8) E-mail subject line must contain:  UIC, POC:  rate, name, and 
phone number.
        (9) SDAP recertifications do not go to personnel support detachments 
(PSD), only the required changes need to be submitted to PSD via the 
transaction online processing system.

4.  Each command is responsible for ensuring updates are made to the Sailors 
record through the commands servicing PSD.  No changes will be made by Navy 
Personnel Command as part of the annual recertification process.  If changes 
are required by PERS-81, then send via separate correspondence with Sailors 
name in subject line of the e-mail.

5.  To obtain a copy of the commands EDVR go to
http://www.public.navy.mil/bupers-npc/Documents/BPM_NPC_%20FAQ.docx and look 
on page five for "How do I get a copy of my commands EDVR."

6.  Each year commands fail to submit their SDAP recertifications by the 
deadline of 30 September 2014 resulting in stoppage of SDAP for all Sailors 
at that UIC.  Ensure the command submits their annotated EDVR before the 
deadline date to prevent unnecessary pay interruptions.

7.  Commands can check the status of their SDAP recertification at
http://www.public.navy.mil/bupers-
npc/career/enlistedcareeradmin/pages/default1.aspx.  Commands are strongly 
encouraged to use this site to ensure all subordinate commands have completed 
the recertification.  Please allow five to 10 days after submission to be 
updated on the webpage.

8.  Beginning with this NAVADMIN, commands and Sailors will have the ability 
to receive back pay within the current FY.  Previously, PSD could not process 
SDAP requests over four months old and could not cross the FY.  All PSDs will 
now have the ability to start a Sailors SDAP up to eight months prior to date 
of the command certification letter within the same FY.  Any SDAP issues that 
are between eight months and one year old past the SDAP effective start date 
will be processed by PERS-81 and will require a letter signed by the commands 
immediate superior in command explaining why the members SDAP was not 
processed in a timely manner.  All other Sailors with outstanding SDAP 
retroactive pay issues should submit a request through the Board for 
Corrections of Naval Records.

9.  Point of contact is PSC(SW/AW) Marie Bates, PERS-811, at (901)874-3260 or 
via e-mail at marie.bates(at)navy.mil.

10.  This message will remain in effect until superseded or 1 October 2014, 
whichever occurs first.

11.  Released by Vice Admiral W. F. Moran, N1.//

BT
#9745
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
