UNCLASSIFIED
ROUTINE
R 131210Z AUG 15
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC
BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 188/15

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/DNS/AUG//

SUBJ/ESTABLISHMENT OF THE RESERVE COMPONENT FOREIGN AREA OFFICER COMMUNITY//

REF/A/DOC/BUPERS/17SEP07//
REF/B/DOC/SECNAV/23JAN13//
REF/C/DOC/OPNAV/04MAY06//
REF/D/DOC/DOD/28APR05//
REF/E/DOC/DOD/28SEP07//
AMPN/REF A IS BUPERSINST 1001.39F, ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURES FOR NAVY 
RESERVISTS.  REF B IS SECNAVINST 1301.7, DEPARTMENT OF THE NAVY FOREIGN AREA 
OFFICER (FAO) PROGRAMS.  REF C IS OPNAVINST 1301.10 (series), NAVY FAO 
PROGRAM.  REF D IS DOD DIRECTIVE 1315.17, MILITARY DEPARTMENT FAO PROGRAMS.  
REF E IS DOD INSTRUCTION 1315.20, MANAGEMENT OF DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE (DOD) 
FAO PROGRAMS.//

RMKS/1.  The Foreign Area Officer (FAO) Community directly supports the Chief 
of Naval Operations' (CNO) tenets of "warfighting first, operate forward, and 
be ready," actively building and strengthening international partnerships and 
forging global relationships.  FAOs serve as key enablers for joint, 
maritime, and coalition operations.

2.  On 30 June 2015, in accordance with the Navy's Total Force Vision, the 
Vice Chief of Naval Operations (VCNO) approved the establishment of the 
Reserve Component (RC) FAO Community – 1715 designator.  The RC FAO Community 
will provide a cadre of international engagement professionals for 
operational support on major staffs, numbered Fleets, and to Combatant 
Commanders, serving in Security Cooperation Offices around the globe, and 
support Senior Defense Officials and Defense Attachs.  The RC FAO Community 
will also provide a flexible strategic Reserve for future mobilization 
requirements.

3.  Due to the unique nature of their work, FAOs must possess a combination 
of operational experience, cultural knowledge, and language expertise.  As 
such, the RC FAO Community will leverage its members' military experiences 
and civilian skillsets to provide operational support for ongoing 
international engagement missions and maintain mobilization readiness for 
emergent overseas requirements.

4.  Selected Reserve (SELRES) applicants with a record of sustained superior 
performance, who are interested in becoming a RC FAO may apply to change 
their designator to 1715 in accordance with reference (a).

5.  Minimum requirements for RC FAO applicants are:
    a.  Security clearance - TS/SCI eligible.
    b.  World-wide assignable, meeting Commander, U.S. Naval Forces Central 
Command (NAVCENT) overseas screening standards.
    c.  Language proficiency - Speak at least one foreign language as 
documented by Defense Language Proficiency Test (DLPT) and Oral Proficiency 
Interview (OPI) - minimum of 2/2/1+ DLPT/OPI scores taken within the last 
three years.
    d.  Masters degree - Possess a regionally-focused international relations 
and/or strategic studies degree.
    e.  Regional experience - proven understanding of U.S. and foreign 
military operations, U.S. foreign policy and security cooperation objectives, 
as well as a deep understanding of interagency and nongovernmental 
organization capabilities and cultures gained from working and living in a 
specified region.
NOTE:  Waivers to the Masters degree requirement will be considered on a 
case-by-case basis for applicants with significant regional expertise from 
military and/or civilian employment.

6.  For initial community establishment, selection panels shall be held and 
coordinated by Assistant Commander, Navy Personnel Command (PERS-9) and Head 
Reserve Officer Community Manager (BUPERS-318). Further application guidance, 
to include deadlines and required documentation, will be promulgated to the 
Reserve Force via GovDelivery announcements.  Questions regarding RC FAO 
eligibility and career management should be directed to the POCs in paragraph 
8 of this NAVADMIN.

7.  Director, International Engagement (OPNAV N52) will serve as the Total 
Force (AC and RC) FAO Community Flag Sponsor.

8.  Points of contact:
    a.  RC FAO Community Manager (BUPERS-318F), (901) 874-3291/DSN 882, 
ryan.mudd(at)navy.mil.
    b.  AC FAO Community Manager (BUPERS-314G), (901) 874-3694/DSN 882, 
william.whitsitt(at)navy.mil.
    c.  Total Force FAO Deputy Officer Community Manager, (901) 874-3102/DSN 
882, christopher.leigh(at)navy.mil.

9.  Released by Vice Admiral R. R. Braun, USN.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
