UNCLASSIFIED
ROUTINE
R 241807Z JUL 15
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC
BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 175/15

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINTON DC/N1/JUL//

SUBJ/ANNOUNCEMENT OF FISCAL YEAR 2016 MEDICAL DEPARTMENT CAREER MILESTONE 
SCREENING BOARD//

REF/A/DOC/MILPERSMAN/15FEB13//
REF/B/DOC/BUMED/3JUN15//
NARR/REF A IS MILPERSMAN 1301-811, POLICIES AND PROCEDURES MEDICAL COMMUNITY 
SCREENING FOR COMMANDING OFFICER AND EXECUTIVE OFFICER. REF B IS BUMED NOTICE 
1410, APPLICATION PROCEDURES FOR FISCAL YEAR 2016 NAVY MEDICINE ACTIVE 
COMPONENT CAREER MILESTONE POSITIONS.//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN announces the FY-16 Medical Department Career 
Milestone Screening Board scheduled to be convened by Commander, Navy 
Personnel Command on 23 September 2015.

2.  Background.  Per reference (a), officer communities may designate a 
limited number of billets as milestone billets that represent positions of 
leadership analogous to command.  Similar to the command screening process, 
milestone screening identifies individuals whose records indicate that they 
possess the leadership abilities required to successfully execute the duties 
associated with Navy Medicine (NAVMED) career milestone billets.  Chief, 
Bureau of Medicine and Surgery has designated certain NAVMED billets as 
career milestone billets.  Career milestone billets include commander (O-5) 
and captain (O-6), Director for Administration (DFA), Officer in Charge 
(OIC), and Director of Nursing Services (DNS) opportunities that require 
specialized healthcare leadership expertise, experience, and a documented 
career progression that prepares an officer for the duties and 
responsibilities associated with these positions.

3.  Reference (b) provides application procedures, executive medicine 
required criteria, available positions, and business rules and will be posted 
on NAVMED website at www.med.navy.mil/directives/Pages/NAVMEDForms.aspx/.

4.  Deadline for application is 31 August 2015 to Navy Personnel Command, 
Medical Department Assignments (PERS 4415).  Late and incomplete applications 
will not be considered.

5.  Point of contact is Ms. Gabriele G. Farmer at (901) 874-4097/DSN 882 or 
via e-mail at gabriele.farmer(at)navy.mil.

6.  This message will remain in effect until superseded or 30 June 2016, 
whichever occurs first.

7.  Released by Vice Admiral W. F. Moran, N1.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
