UNCLASSIFIED/

ROUTINE

R 272020Z MAR 15

FM CNO WASHINGTON DC

TO NAVADMIN

INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC

BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 074/15

SUBJ/NAVY ATTENDANCE AT THE 13-15 APRIL 2015 NAVY LEAGUE OF THE UNITED STATES 
(NLUS) SEA-AIR-SPACE EXPOSITION//

MSGID/NAVADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/DNS/MAR/

REF/A/LTR/SECNAV/04MAR14/NOTAL//

REF/B/DOC/DON OGC/10FEB2015//

REF/C/DOC/DOD/5500.07-R/17NOV2011//

NARR/REF A IS SECNAV CONFERENCE APPROVAL MEMORANDUM.  REF B IS OGC
(ETHICS) MEMO CONCERNING NAVY PARTICIPATION IN 2015 SEA AIR SPACE EXPOSITION.  
REF C IS DOD PUBLICATION 5500.07-R JOINT ETHICS REGULATION.//

RMKS/1.  The Navy League, U.S. (NLUS) will hold the annual Sea-Air-Space 
(SAS) Exposition, at the Gaylord National Resort and Conference Center, 
National Harbor, Maryland from 13-15 April 2015.
SAS provides a valuable platform for the Professional Development of 
Department of the Navy Personnel on the latest developments in Naval Warfare, 
as well as a valuable opportunity for Navy engagement with representatives 
from a broad cross section of government, industry, and academia.  This 
year's theme:  '50 Years of Maritime Excellence and Innovation' was selected 
to highlight the department of the Navy's prioritized mission and 
capabilities.

2.  The Navy participates in SAS annually.  It provides an excellent 
opportunity for training and engagement.  There will be exhibits from 250 
industry partners, more than 13 Navy Commands, approximately 750 
international guests and over 12,000 attendees, will be part of SAS 15.

3.  Over 70 Senior Executive Service (SES), Flag/General Officers from the 
Navy, Marine Corps, Coast Guard and Maritime Administration are part of the 
Professional Development Schedule.
Invited speakers for SAS 2015 include:
   a.  Secretary Of The Navy (SECNAV)
   b.  Chief Of Naval Operations (CNO)
   c.  Commandant Of The Marine Corps (CMC)
   d.  Commandant Of The Coast Guard (CUSG)

4.  A complete schedule of speakers is available at www.seaairspace.org.

5.  The Director, Navy Staff has determined SAS 2015 travel by Navy Personnel 
to be consistent with mission essential policy guidance.  Per reference (a), 
limited use of government funds to attend SAS 2015 is approved.  The 
following  restrictions apply:
   a.  Attendance is authorized for local participants who attend at No-Cost 
Temporarily Assigned Duty (TAD).
   b.  All personnel desiring to attend the exhibition in a funded TAD status 
must have received conference attendance approval per reference (a).
   c.  NLUS has offered free attendance at the below nine events to all 
military personnel.  Per reference (b), this free attendance does not 
constitute a gift for purposes of applicable government ethics regulations, 
and therefore may be accepted by all military personnel.
       (1)  Opening ceremonies and plenary sessions
       (2)  Sea Services luncheon
       (3)  Sea-Air-Space luncheon
       (4)  Sea-Air-Space Black Tie reception and dinner
       (5)  Congressional breakfast
       (6)  Secretary of the Navy luncheon
       (7)  International maritime reception
       (8)  Shuttle bus transportation to the conference site
       (9)  Closing ceremonies
   d.  The Cohen Group breakfast and the Sea-Air-Space Golden Anniversary 
Celebration are "by invitation" events.  Given the broad cross section of 
individuals from government, academia, and industry expected to attend these 
two events, reference (b) contains a "Widely Attended Gathering" (WAG) 
determination for both events.  This WAG determination allows individual Navy 
Personnel to accept free attendance from NLUS to either or both of these 
events only after obtaining a determination from their supervisor and ethics 
counselor that their attendance is in the interest of the Department of the 
Navy.
   e.  Attendees and travel authorizing officials must be mindful of the need 
to be good stewards of taxpayer dollars.  Permissive TAD orders may be issued 
in accordance with Navy policy.  Service members attending on permissive TAD 
orders will be responsible for the expenses associated with their attendance.
   f.  All Navy participation in SAS 2015 shall be consistent with reference 
(c).

6.  Registration information is available on the SAS website at 
www.seaairspace.org.  There is no charge to attend the exposition for Navy 
qualified attendees, which include:
   a.  Invited guests of the Navy League
   b.  Active duty and reserve U.S. military
   c.  Retired U.S. Navy personnel
   d.  NLUS Members

7.  Within the national capital region, transportation to SAS 2015 will be 
available in the Arlington area from the Pentagon, Naval Support Facility, 
Washington Navy Yard, Office of Naval Research, Naval Research Laboratory, 
Joint Base Anacostia-Bolling, Crystal City, Joint Base Andrews, Office of 
Naval Intelligence, and Coast Guard Headquarters.  Transportation will also 
be available from Patuxent River in Maryland.

8.  Questions regarding SAS 2015 should be directed to the NLUS at
(703) 312-1587 or visit www.seaairspace.org.

9.  Released by Vice Admiral S. H. Swift, Director, Navy Staff.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
