UNCLASSIFIED
ROUTINE
R 121514Z SEP 16
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC
BT
UNCLAS
PASS TO OFFICE CODES:
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//

NAVADMIN 201/16

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/SEP//

SUBJ/FEBRUARY 2017 CYCLE 100 NAVY-WIDE EXAMINATIONS FOR ADVANCEMENT OF 
SELECTED RESERVE PERSONNEL TO E4 THROUGH E7//

REF/A/DOC/BUPERS/2NOV07//
REF/B/MSG/SECNAV WASHINGTON DC/052044ZMAR13//
REF/C/MSG/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/252221ZJUN10//
REF/D/MSG/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/031846ZNOV15//
REF/E/MSG/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/131544ZDEC07//
NARR/REF A IS BUPERSINST 1430.16F, ADVANCEMENT MANUAL FOR ENLISTED PERSONNEL 
OF THE U.S. NAVY AND U.S. NAVY RESERVE.  REF B IS ALNAV 015/13, PERSONNEL 
SECURITY INVESTIGATION SUBMISSION REQUIREMENTS. REF C IS NAVADMIN 215/10, 
PERFORMANCE EVALUATION AND ADVANCEMENT GUIDANCE FOR INDIVIDUAL AUGMENTEE 
SAILORS.  REF D IS NAVADMIN 261/15, ESTABLISHMENT OF SUBMARINE AND NUCLEAR 
SERVICE RATINGS.  REF E IS NAVADMIN 336/07, ADMINISTRATION OF THE NAVY-WIDE 
ADVANCEMENT EXAM FOR SAILORS IN IRAQ, AFGHANISTAN, AND THE HORN OF AFRICA.//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN provides guidance for administration of Cycle 100 
Navy-Wide Advancement Examinations (NWAE) for advancement in rate of selected 
reserve (SELRES) personnel.  Information pertaining to selection board 
criteria will be promulgated via a future NAVADMIN.
    a.  SELRES exams will be administered in February 2017.
    b.  All candidates serving on voluntary recall or mobilization will 
compete for advancement as a SELRES.
    c.  This NAVADMIN supplements reference (a).
    d.  In addition to the requirements of reference (a), chapter 6, 
educational services officers (ESOs) must follow the pre-exam preparation 
requirements in the exam verbatim located at https://prod.neas.netc.navy.mil.

2.  Eligibility Requirements.  For all E4-E7 candidates, eligibility 
requirements are found in reference (a), chapter 2 with the following 
information specific only to Cycle 100:
    a.  Candidates must meet the basic eligibility requirements outlined in 
chapter 2 of reference (a) prior to 1 February 2017 to be considered as a 
candidate.  Candidates who do not meet the eligibility requirements are 
ineligible for Cycle 100 NWAE and shall not be administered an advancement 
examination.
    b.  The terminal eligibility date used to compute time-in-rate (TIR) for 
E4-E6 is 1 July 2017 and for E7 is 1 January 2018.
    c.  The minimum TIR date must be on or before:
        E7 - 1 January 2015
        E6 - 1 July 2014
        E5 - 1 July 2016
        E4 - 1 January 2017
    d.  E6 and E7 candidate TIR requirements for early promote Sailors can be 
waived for one year with commanding officer (CO)/officer in charge approval.
    e.  High year tenure (HYT) date or approved HYT waiver for E4-E6 must be 
effective 1 July 2017 or later.  HYT date or approved HYT waiver for E7 must 
be effective 1 September 2017 or later.
    f.  Candidates who have submitted a formal written request for voluntary 
transfer to the retired reserve (with or without pay) or fleet reserve on a 
date prior to their mandated HYT are ineligible for advancement.
    g.  Candidates in a rating requiring a security clearance must have a 
favorable investigation adjudication issued by the Department of Defense 
Central Adjudication Facility or a CO's interim clearance must have been 
granted before 1 February 2017.  Once Sailors have a clearance they must 
maintain that clearance eligibility.  If for any reason a clearance is denied 
or revoked, an exam is not authorized until a new clearance is granted.  
Rates requiring a security clearance are AC, AE, AG, AO, AT, AWF, AWO, AWR, 
AWS, AZ, CTI, CTN, CTR, CTT, EOD, ET, ETR, ETV, FC, GM, HT, IC, IS, IT, LN, 
MA, MC, MM, MMA, MMW, MN, ND, OS, QM, SB, SO, STG, STS, and YN.  Refer to 
reference (b) for additional guidance.
    h.  Change of rate and retention approvals must be approved and completed 
no later than 31 January 2017.  This includes approvals from Navy Personnel 
Command (NPC), "A" schools, etc.
    i.  Compute performance mark average (PMA) using all evaluations in the 
candidate's current rank with an ending date that falls within the following 
time periods:
        E7 exam - 1 February 2014 to 31 December 2016
        E6 exam - 1 February 2014 to 31 January 2017
        E5 exam - 1 February 2016 to 31 January 2017
        E4 exam - 1 June 2016 to 31 January 2017
    j.  For additional guidance on computing PMA, refer to reference (a), 
chapter 3.  For PMA guidance for individual augmentee (IA) Sailors refer to 
reference (c).
    k.  Branch class (BRCL) and special program indicator (SPI) code:  
BRCL 32 with a blank SPI code is an invalid Navy accounting status.  Commands 
should take action to have this corrected for Sailors reflecting no SPI code.  
Sailors in this status will be invalidated.
    l.  Cryptologic Technician Interpretive Sailors must achieve a minimum of 
L2/R2 on the Defense Language Proficiency Test in their primary language, as 
assigned by their CO, at least once in current pay grade.
    m.  Sailors assigned to a Submarine source rating must be fully 
qualified, in accordance with the Submarine Qualifications Designation for 
Enlisted Members (MILPERSMAN 1220-040.)

3.  Rating Specific Information.
    a.  To be eligible for advancement to E7,
        (1) Air Traffic Controllers must possess a valid Air Traffic Control 
Specialist Certificate (Federal Aviation Administration Form 7220-1) and meet 
requirements established in Manual of the Medical Department U.S. Navy.
        (2) Aerographers Mate must have the Meteorological and Oceanographic 
Forecaster (Navy enlisted classification (NEC) 7412).
        (3) Explosive Ordnance Disposal (EOD) personnel must hold the Senior 
EOD Technician (NEC 5335), or the Master EOD Technician (NEC 5337) prior to 
the E7 board convening date.
        (4) Navy Diver personnel must hold the first class diver NEC 5342, 
prior to the E7 board convening date.
    b.  Commands must verify and invalidate examination results for those 
selection board eligible Sailors who fail to meet these qualifications.
    c.  Aviation Electronics Technician personnel.  Administer Aviation 
Electronics Technician (Intermediate) examinations for intermediate 
maintenance personnel and Aviation Electronics Technician (Organizational) 
examinations for organizational maintenance personnel.  Personnel will 
continue to be tested via two separate examinations, but will be merged 
together for E7 selection board processes.
    d.  Separate exams are given for the Electronics Technician, Electronics 
Technician (Communications), Electronics Technician (Navigation).  Separate 
exams are also given for Machinists Mate, Machinists Mate (Auxiliary), and 
Machinists Mate (Weapons).  Refer to reference (d) for the establishment of 
new submarine and nuclear service ratings.

4.  Exam Ordering.
    a.  Deploying commands can order exams up to six months prior to the 
scheduled examination date.  Exams required prior to the TIR list opening are 
ordered via message or in the preferred message format via e-mail to 
sfly_N321_exam_order(at)navy.mil following the guidelines in chapter 4 and 
figure 4-1 of reference (a).  Specify in the subject line that the request is 
for the early ordering of examination material.  Ensure a point of contact 
(POC) is included in the message.  Refer to reference (e) for IA Sailors who 
are pending deployment to, or are deployed to and operating in a 
Congressionally designated combat zone.
    b.  Cryptologic Technician-Interpretive/Cryptologic Technician- 
Network/Cryptologic Technician-Collection, sensitive compartmented 
information (SCI) exam ordering dates can be found on the Navy Enlisted 
Advancement System (NEAS) website at
https://prod.neas.netc.navy.mil.
        (1) ESOs must verify TIR eligibility lists on NEAS Web for initial 
exam ordering.
        (2) Additional exams are ordered via message or in message format via 
e-mail to sfly_cryptologic.products(at)navy.mil following the guidelines of 
reference (a), chapter 4.  Commands must include their Department of Defense 
activity address code account number, POC, and the number of exams required.  
Commands requesting the forwarding of exams should include the forwarding 
command as an info addressee on the message.  The deadline for additional 
orders is 1 January 2017.
    c.  Exam ordering for non-SCI exams begins 27 November 2016. ESOs must 
verify TIR eligibility lists on the NEAS website during the following time 
periods:
        (1) Initial TIR lists will be available 27 November 2016 to 6 
December 2016.
        (2) Additional TIR lists will be available 7 December 2016 to 25 
January 2017.  Deadline to order SELRES exams is 6 March 2017.
        (3) Exams required after the TIR list has closed as well as exams for 
prior service reenlistment eligibility Reserve Sailors should be ordered via 
message or in message format via e-mail to sfly_N321_exam_order(at)navy.mil 
following the guidelines of reference (a), chapter 4.  Ensure a POC is 
included in the message.
    d.  Exams for IA Sailors or recalled reservists will be ordered by the 
command holding the service record of the member.  Authority is granted for 
these candidates to be administered exams with the command's active-duty 
candidates.  However, these candidates are still required to take the Cycle 
100 exam and not the Cycle 234 or 235 exams.
    e.  When an exam is not used during the normally scheduled event, do not 
destroy the exam prior to 1 April 2017.  Submit a request with justification 
via e-mail to sfly_N321_exam_order(at)navy.mil for permission to retain exams 
for administration on the next drill weekend in March 2017.  Ensure reason 
for requested delay is included.
    f.  ESOs must verify the exam order at the "View Previous Exam Orders" 
link via NEAS Web within 14 days of placing examination orders.  If 
discrepancies are noted, contact Naval Education and Training Professional 
Development Center (NETPDC).

5.  Exam Administration and Answer Sheet Returns.
    a.  For exam administration and answer sheet return instructions, refer 
to the exam verbatim at https://prod.neas.netc.navy.mil.
    b.  ESOs must check the exam tote-board on NEAS Web 
https://prod.neas.netc.navy.mil/Public/Toteboard.aspx often to ensure answer 
sheets have been received and processed.
    c.  Late exams should be kept to a minimum as they are for candidates 
who, through no fault of their own, are unable to take the exam at the 
regularly scheduled time.  Exam Ordering and Discrepancies Division (NETPDC 
(N321)) is the approving authority for all late exams.
    d.  The deadline to administer regular exams is 28 February 2017.  
Approved late exams must be administered no later than 31 March 2017.
    e.  A detailed discrepancy list will be maintained on NEAS Web. For 
guidance on correcting discrepancies via encrypted e-mail, refer to reference 
(a), chapter 7.
    f.  Refer to reference (e) regarding procedures for missed exam cycle for 
E4-E6 IA candidates.  Missed exam cycle considerations are not an automatic 
process.  Commands must submit the command letter of transmittal and 
worksheet or answer sheet.
    g.  Refer to reference (e) regarding examination options for E7 IA 
candidates.  Commands must submit the command letter of transmittal in 
accordance with reference (a).  The in-theatre selection board eligibility 
waiver is not an automatic process.

6.  Examination Results.
    a.  E4-E7 results will be provided via Bureau of Naval Personnel On-Line 
to authorized command representatives prior to release of profile sheets.
    b.  Commands are directed to verify the examination status verification 
report (ESVR) for accuracy before frocking and/or advancement of E4-E6 
candidates.
    c.  Commands are directed to verify the ESVR for accuracy and re-verify 
weekly thereafter until scheduled board convening date for E7 candidates.  
Commands must submit a message to NETPDC (N321), info Career Administration 
Department Navy Enlisted Advancement Systems Active Duty/Reserve Advancements 
(PERS-812)/ Eligibility and Promotions Branch (PERS-802), requesting 
invalidation for candidates no longer eligible or no longer recommended for 
advancement. Withdrawal of advancement must be documented as directed in 
reference (a), paragraph 721b.
    d.  Individual Sailors may view/download their profile sheet via a .mil 
domain computer at https://prod.neas.netc.navy.mil/NEASRpts/Individual.aspx.

7.  Any additional information regarding this cycle will be posted on NEAS 
Web.

8.  POC.
    a.  NPC Customer Service Center at 866-u-ask-npc/866-827-5672/DNS 882 or 
via e-mail at uasknpc(at)navy.mil.
    b.  SCI exam questions and orders at 850-473-5867/5874/DSN 753 or via e-
mail at sfly_cryptologic.products(at)navy.mil.
    c.  Exam orders, records, and discrepancies at 850-473-6148/DSN 753 or 
via e-mail at sfly_N321_exam_order(at)navy.mil or 
sfly_N321_discrepanc(at)navy.mil.

9.  For further information (reference (a), exam verbatim, and other related 
documents) visit NEAS Web at https://prod.neas.netc.navy.mil.

10.  This NAVADMIN will remain in effect until superseded or canceled, 
whichever occurs first.

11.  Released by Vice Admiral R. P. Burke, N1//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
