UNCLASSIFIED//
ROUTINE
R 021633Z APR 19
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 079/19

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNIC WASHINGTON DC/N9/APR//

SUBJ/HOUSING SURVEY PARTICIPATION//

POC/MR. GREG WRIGHT/CNIC WASHINGTON DC/N93/TEL: 202-433-4282/EMAIL:
GREG.G.WRIGHT(AT)NAVY.MIL//
POC/MS. CINDY MOGAN/CNIC WASHINGTON DC/N93/TEL: 202-433-4255/EMAIL:
CYNTHIA.MOGAN(AT)NAVY.MIL//

RMKS/1. The Navy is facing an urgent issue impacting our Sailors and their 
families. As we have learned over the past few months, the condition of our 
family housing and unaccompanied housing is not where it should be. Sailors 
and their families deserve safe, healthy quality living quarters. To this 
end, the Navy will be conducting Resident Satisfaction Surveys (RSS) to 
better understand resident concerns.

2. This NAVADMIN provides direction to Commanders, Commanding Officers and 
the chain of command to inform all Navy housing residents of ongoing Resident 
Satisfaction Surveys and to encourage maximum participation from our Sailors 
and their families. Over the past few months, media have reported on 
substandard health, safety and maintenance conditions in some of our family 
and unaccompanied housing units. As leaders, we have a responsibility to 
ensure our Navy provides the best quality of life possible.

3. The Housing Surveys will give Navy leadership a better understanding of 
overall resident satisfaction and an opportunity for residents to tell us 
about their housing experience and concerns. Constructive feedback is 
critical for the Navy to correct these issues and to understand where 
processes are working properly or not.

4. An independent contractor, CEL & Associates, Inc., will be sending a 
letter or email to each resident with instructions on how to complete the 
respective survey. These surveys are being conducted by a 3rd party and will 
not be influenced by the Partner or the Chain of Command.

5. Specific dates for the surveys are as follows:
    a. Government owned Family Housing survey: 19 MAR-6 JUN
    b. PPV Family Housing survey: 2-30 APR
    c. PPV Unaccompanied Housing survey: 2-30 APR
    d. Government owned Unaccompanied Housing: 2 APR-20 JUN

6. The Navy directs all command triads, department heads, division officers 
and leading Chief Petty Officers to communicate the value of the survey and 
emphasize the importance of participation by all residents. Command outreach 
with Family Readiness Groups (FRGs) and Command Ombudsmen is highly 
encouraged.

7. Points of contact are CNIC Director of Navy Housing, Mr. Greg Wright, 202-
433-4282, greg.g.wright@navy.mil; or CNIC Integration Support and Family 
Housing Operations Branch Manager, Ms. Cindy Mogan, 202-433-4255, 
cynthia.mogan@navy.mil.

8. This NAVADMIN will remain in effect until 21 June 2019.

9. Released by Vice Admiral M. M. Jackson, Commander, Navy Installations 
Command.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//

