UNCLASSIFIED//
ROUTINE
R 151316Z MAR 19
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//DNS//
TO NAVADMIN
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC
BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 066/19

MSGID/NAVADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/DNS/MAR// PASS TO OFFICE CODES:
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//DNS//
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//DNS//

SUBJ/2019 MRS. SYBIL STOCKDALE OMBUDSMAN OF THE YEAR AWARD//

REF/A/DOC/OPNAVINST 1750.1G CH-2/2SEP14//

AMPN/REF A is OPNAVINST 1750.1G, (The Navy Family Ombudsman Program)// 
POC/ELTING, ANGELA CIV/CNIC N9/ANGELA.ELTING(AT)NAVY.MIL/TEL:  (202) 433-
6750//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN announces the annual Mrs. Sybil Stockdale Ombudsman of 
the Year Award nomination/selection process and presentation requirements for 
Calendar Year 2019.

2.  This award was inspired by Mrs. Sybil Stockdale, who set an unflagging 
example for supporting families of other prisoners of war during the seven 
year internment of her husband, Vice Admiral James Bond Stockdale, in 
Southeast Asia.  The Ombudsman of the Year Award is presented to four 
ombudsmen who have served their commands and Navy families with selfless 
dedication and commitment to family readiness in the following categories:
    a.  Afloat command (Commander, U.S. Fleet Forces Command 
(COMUSFLTFORCOM))
    b.  Afloat command (Commander, U.S. Pacific Fleet Command (COMPACFLT))
    c.  Ashore command
    d.  Reserve command (Commander, Navy Reserve Force Command 
(COMNAVRESFOR))

3.  Criteria for Ombudsman of the Year:
    a.  Must have demonstrated the ability to effectively communicate between 
the Navy family and the command.
    b.  Must have maintained the highest standards of professionalism and 
confidentiality while providing a positive example for command members and 
families.
    c.  Must have facilitated and promoted a healthy sense of community among 
command families by assisting and supporting Navy families to include 
emergencies, mobilization, or deployment.
    d.  Must have demonstrated consistent compliance with training, data 
collection, and required reports per reference (a).

4.  Eligibility requirements for Ombudsman of the Year:
    a.  Award nominees must be registered in the Ombudsman Registry, 
https://ombudsmanregistry.cnic.navy.mil, and have distinguished themselves in 
supporting Navy families.
    b.  Must have served as an Ombudsman in good standing for at least one 
year and embody the core values of the Ombudsman Program.

5.  The nomination package for the Ombudsman of the Year award shall consist
of:
    a.  Cover Letter.
    b.  Summary of action, not to exceed two pages, addressing each of the 
criteria set forth in paragraph 3.
    c.  Short biography of the nominee.
    d.  Letter from the Fleet and Family Support Center Director or Navy 
Operational Support Center (NOSC) validating involvement in Ombudsman 
assemblies and advanced training.
    e.  Additional supporting information (e.g., a letter of support for 
nomination from former Commanding Officers, Command Points of Contact, or 
Command Support Teams; letters of appreciation presented by Commanding 
Officers or family members).

6.  Nomination process:
    a.  COMUSFLTFORCOM Ombudsman of the Year.  COMUSFLTFORCOM will nominate 
an Ombudsman from all deployable forces within Atlantic Fleet.
    b.  COMPACFLT Ombudsman of the Year.  COMPACFLT will nominate an 
Ombudsman from all deployable forces within the Pacific Fleet.
    c.  COMNAVRESFOR Ombudsman of the Year.  COMNAVRESFOR will nominate an 
Ombudsman from all Navy Reserve Units and NOSCs.
    d.  Navy Shore Ombudsman of the Year.  The Office of the Chief of Naval 
Operations (OPNAV) will nominate a Shore (type 1 and type 6) Ombudsman from 
the following:  OPNAV direct report Naval Shore Activities; COMUSFLTFORCOM; 
COMPACFLT; U.S. Naval Forces Europe; U.S. Naval Forces Africa; and Deputy 
Chief of Naval Operations (Manpower, Personnel, Training, and Education) 
(N1).

7.  Deadline:  Nomination packages shall be submitted to the appropriate 
organization, via the chain of command, no later than 15 May 2019.

8.  Recommendations for the four award winners will be forwarded no later 
than 14 June 2019 to the Chief of Naval Operations (CNO) for endorsement as 
the final approving authority for the award.  The award recipients will be 
announced via NAVADMIN.

9.  CNO or his designated representative will present the award in October 
during an Ombudsman Appreciation event in Washington, DC.

10.  Additional information about the award process and procedures is located 
at 
https://www.cnic.navy.mil/ffr/family_readiness/fleet_and_family_support_prog
ram/work-and-family-life/ombudsman_program/mrs--sybil-stockdale-ombudsman-of
-the-year-award.html.

11.  Released by Ms. Steffanie B. Easter, Director, Navy Staff.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//

