UNCLASSIFIED//
ATTENTION INVITED TO  
ROUTINE
R 111423Z DEC 13 PSN 660484K28
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
INFO ZEN/CNO WASHINGTON DC
BT
UNCLAS
***THIS IS A 2 SECTION MESSAGE COLLATED BY OIX GATEWAY NORFOLK VA*** QQQQ
SUBJ: NAVAL POSTGRADUATE SCHOOL DISTANCE LEARNING GRADUATE EDUCATION PROGRAMS 
AVAILABLE FOR ACADEMIC YEAR 2014// UNCLASSIFIED/ FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1// 
TO NAVADMIN INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1// UNCLAS//N01524//

NAVADMIN 313/13

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/DEC//

SUBJ/NAVAL POSTGRADUATE SCHOOL DISTANCE LEARNING GRADUATE EDUCATION PROGRAMS 
AVAILABLE FOR ACADEMIC YEAR 2014//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN announces that the Naval Postgraduate School
(NPS) will be offering defense-focused master's degrees and graduate 
certificates to develop quantitative skills and competencies, producing 
graduates with the disciplined analytical approach to problem solving that is 
essential to an effective, dynamic defense enterprise.  NPS is dedicated to 
providing relevant, high quality education, to empower the next generation of 
leadership in the DOD.  A variety of delivery methods are utilized to expand 
learning beyond the traditional classroom.

2.  NPS Distance Learning (DL) programs are part-time programs (usually 12 to 
24 months) for mid-grade military officers and DOD civilian leaders who are 
unable to attend NPS residential graduate programs. Graduate certificates are 
also available to qualified enlisted personnel.  DOD contractor personnel 
applications will be considered for admission on a space available basis.
Student application forms are available at: http://www.nps.edu/ 
academics/admissions/applyonline/applynow.html.

3.  Mission funded seats are available to eligible active-duty Naval officers 
(USN and USMC) at no cost to the service member.  With the exception of 
mission funded seats, all others must be sponsored by an agency, an employer 
or a command.  Officers that have already received a navy-funded master's 
degree through graduate education voucher, NPS, or other civilian 
institutions are not eligible to apply for an additional master's, but may 
apply for certificate programs.  Reserve officers are not eligible for any 
NPS program.  Funds can be transferred to NPS using a SF182 with LOA, MIPR,
DD-448 or NAVCOMPT 2276-A.

4.  The following programs are available for the 2014 academic year:
    a.  DL master's degree programs consist of two classes per quarter for 
eight quarters.  Check each program's webpage for any prerequisites or 
eligibility requirements for enrolment as they may vary.  Copies of 
transcripts and participation agreements are required to support the 
application process for all degree programs.

Curriculum #311 - systems Engineering:
http://www.nps.edu/academics/dl/dlprograms/programs/degprogs_se_nonres.html.
       359 - Human Systems Integration:
http://www.nps.edu/academics/dl/dlprograms/programs/degprogs_mhsi.html.
       363 - Systems Analysis:
http://www.nps.edu/academics/dl/dlprograms/programs/degprogs_msa.html.
       535 - Underwater Acoustic Systems:
http://www.nps.edu/academics/dl/dlprograms/programs/degprogs_mea.html.
       721 - Systems Engineering Management-PD21 (for DOD civilians):
http://www.nps.edu/academics/dl/dlprograms/programs/degprogs_pd21.htm
L.
       805 - Executive Master of Business Administration:
http://www.nps.edu/academics/schools/gsbpp/academics/emba.html.
       807 - Executive Master of Business Administration (for DOD civilians):
http://www.nps.edu/academics/schools/gsbpp/academics/emba.html.
       835 - Contract Management (for DOD civilians):
http://www.nps.edu/academics/schools/gsbpp/academics/mscm.html.
       836 - Program Management (for DOD civilians):
http://www.nps.edu/academics/schools/gsbpp/academics/mspm.html.
       b.  NPS offers a mixed mode program for unrestricted line officers 
with dl courses followed by a year of in residence coursework at NPS.  Dl 
courses consist of a series of four graduate level  courses delivered over 
two quarters, designed as pre-requisites to the in-resident program.  Contact 
your detailer if you are interested in this program.
       834 - Management (Financial/Applied Management):
https://www.nps.edu/academics/schools/gsbpp/academics/mam.html.
      c.  NPS offers the following programs that build on Navy Advanced 
Technical Education schools and leverage the academic work in these schools 
and require reduced course work, typically one course per quarter for five to 
eight quarters.
       571 - Reactors - Mechanical/Electrical Engineering:
http://www.nps.edu/academics/schools/gseas/departments/ece/handbook/Msesee/nr
index.html.
       572 - Mechanical Engineering for Nuclear Trained Officers:
http://www.nps.edu/academics/gseas/mae/dl/nuc.asp#program.
       613 - Naval Test Pilot/Mechanical & Aerospace Engineering:
       http://www.nps.edu/academics/gseas/mae/dl.asp.
       d.  DL graduate certificates consist of a series of four graduate 
level courses delivered over four quarters, designed to provide greatly 
enhanced knowledge and skills in specific subject areas.  Check each 
program's webpage for any prerequisites or eligibility requirements for 
enrolment as they may vary.

Curriculum #262 - Human Systems Integration:
http://www.nps.edu/academics/dl/dlprograms/programs/cert_hsi.html.
       271 - Network Operations and Technology (Operations):
http://www.nps.edu/academics/dl/dlprograms/programs/cert_nwot-ops.html.
       273 - Space Systems:
http://www.nps.edu/academics/dl/dlprograms/programs/cert_ss.html.
       274 - Anti-Submarine Warfare:
http://www.nps.edu/academics/dl/dlprograms/programs/cert_asw.html.
       277 - Knowledge Superiority:
http://www.nps.edu/academics/dl/dlprograms/programs/cert_ks.html.
       281 - Systems Analysis:
http://www.nps.edu/academics/dl/dlprograms/programs/cert_sa.html.
       282 - Systems Engineering:
http://www.nps.edu/academics/dl/dlprograms/programs/cert_se.html.
       289 - Cost Estimating and Analysis:
http://www.nps.edu/academics/dl/dlprograms/programs/cert_cea.html.


5.  All officers who enroll in a NPC DL master's degree will incur a two to 
three year service obligation upon completion/withdrawal and all who enroll 
in a NPS certificate program will incur a one year service obligation upon 
completion/withdrawal.  Textbooks, education materials and all similar 
expenses will be paid by the student.  Program commencement is subject to the 
availability of funds.

6.  For more information regarding NPS DL programs, visit 
http://www.nps.edu/dl/.

7.  Released by Vice Admiral W. F. Moran, N1. //

BT
#0634
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//

