RTTUZYUW RUEWMCS0000 2071811-UUUU--RUCRNAD.
ZNR UUUUU
R 261811Z JUL 13
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//
TO NAVADMIN
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//
BT
UNCLAS//N01900//

NAVADMIN 187/13

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/JUL//

SUBJ/ADDITIONAL GUIDANCE FOR TRANSITION GOALS, PLANS, AND SUCCESS//

REF/A/DOC/DOD/13MAY13//NOTAL//
REF/B/MSG/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/282212ZFEB13//
NARR/REF A IS DIRECTIVE-TYPE MEMORANDUM (DTM) 12-007, IMPLEMENTATION
OF MANDATORY TRANSITION ASSISTANCE PROGRAM PARTICIPATION FOR 
ELIGIBLE SERVICE MEMBERS.  REF B IS NAVADMIN 053/13, UPDATED 
REQUIREMENTS FOR TRANSITION GOALS, PLANS, SUCCEED.//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN announces the third series for Transition 
Assistance Program (TAP)/Transition Goals, Plans, and Success (GPS) 
implementation and provides additional information for the Capstone 
event.

2.  Capstone event:
    a.  Per refs (a) and (b), Sailors will participate in a Capstone
event to verify completion of mandatory components of Transition GPS 
and achievement of career readiness standards (CRS).  Sailors who 
require additional assistance will be referred to supplemental 
training resources.  In addition, through the Capstone event, 
Sailors will be referred, as required, to appropriate government 
agencies and organizations that provide them continued benefits, 
services and support as veterans.  On 1 October 2013, the Capstone 
event will be available at all Fleet and Family Support Centers 
(FFSC). 
    b.  The mandatory Capstone event will be conducted by FFSC TAP 
counselors at Navy transition sites in small groups (less than 25) 
seminars (2-4 hours).  For small sites and remote Sailors, this may 
be done individually.  Standard operating procedures (SOP) on 
conducting Capstone in a group setting is located at http://cnic.
navy.mil/ffr/family_readiness/fleet_and_family_support_program/
transition_assistance/TransitionGPSGuidance.html.
    c.  For those unable to attend a transition site Capstone event 
due to operational commitment and those exempted from the Department 
of Labor (DOL) employment workshop, a local individual Capstone 
event with a transition counselor (command career counselor or 
designated command representative) will be conducted to verify that
mandatory elements on the DD Form 2958 are complete.  SOP for 
conducting a one-on-one Capstone event is located at http://
www.public.navy.mil/bupers-npc/career/transition/pages/tap.aspx.
    d.  Ref (b) directed completion of DD Form 2958.  Following a 
Sailor's attendance at a FFSC transition site Capstone event or an 
individual review of DD Form 2958, they will complete a hard copy DD 
Form 2958 to document CRS.  Once the command verifies CRS, use the 
data from the hard copy to electronically document completion of the 
DD Form 2958 using the Defense Manpower Data Center's (DMDC) TAP 
site at https://www.dmdc.osd.mil/tap.
    e.  Capstone must be completed NLT 90 days preceding an 
anticipated separation/retirement.  For rapid and short notice 
separations, Capstone shall occur NLT the date of separation as 
reflected on the DD-214.

3.  Reporting requirements update.
    a.  Per ref (b), command transition/career counselors will use the 
DMDC web based TAP applications online tool available at https://
www.dmdc.osd.mil/tap to conduct and document pre-separation 
counseling for active component Service members (DD Form 2648) and 
pre-separation counseling for reserve component Service members 
released from active duty (DD Form 2648-1).  
    b.  FFSC will enter Transition GPS attendance data into DMDC web
based application available at https://www.dmdc.osd.mil/tacl NLT 5
days after the end of each month. 
    c.  Command transition/career counselors shall utilize the web 
version of the Career Information Management System, career decision 
section, available at https://nsips.nmci.navy.mil/nsipsclo/jsp/
indec.jsp to enter and track TAP completion data.

4.  Points of contact for general policy questions are:  Mr. Perry
 Christiansen, N170 at (901) 874-4372/DSN 882 or via e-mail at 
perry.christiansen(at)navy.mil, or Mr. Tom Albert at (901) 874-4254,
or 1-866-U-ASK-NPC (1-866-827-5672), or via e-mail at 
tom.albert(at)navy.mil.  For specific execution questions, contact
Ms. Shauna Turner, CNIC (N91), at (202) 433-4592/DSN 288, or via 
e-mail at shauna.turner(at)navy.mil.

5.  Released by Vice Admiral S. R. Van Buskirk, N1//
BT
#0000
NNNN

