UNCLASSIFIED//

ROUTINE

R 151939Z MAR 19

FM CNO WASHINGTON DC

TO NAVADMIN

INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC

BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 067/19

PASS TO OFFICE CODES:
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//DNS//

MSGID/NAVADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/DNS/MAR//

SUBJ/BATTLE OF MIDWAY COMMEMORATION PLANNING ORDER//

REF/A/DOC/CNO/21DEC2012OPNAVINST 5726.8A//

AMPN/REF A IS THE OPNAVINST 5726.8A OUTREACH: AMERICA'S NAVY//

RMKS/1.  June 2019 will mark the 77th anniversary of one of the nation's most 
historically significant naval victories.  The Battle of Midway (BOM) 
occurred 3-7 June 1942 and changed the tide of war in the Pacific and the 
course of world history.  This order provides initial guidance and tasks for 
the planning and execution of this important commemoration.

2.  In support of reference (a), execute a commemorative event commensurate 
with the importance of the BOM for our Navy and Nation.

3.  Commander's Intent:
    a.  Purpose.  Serve as a celebration of one of our Navy's greatest 
victories. Specifically, the commemoration will:
        (1) Engage the American public on how the Navy has been and remains 
critical to our nation's defense.
        (2) Inspire the current generation of Sailors to trace their roots to 
those who fought in and won this great battle.  Highlight the core attributes 
of toughness, initiative, accountability, and integrity of American Sailors 
and Navy civilians who contributed to success at Midway and throughout World 
War II.
        (3) Draw parallels between todays forward deployed operations to the 
historical lessons of the battle to cultivate an informed future for our 
Navy.
    b.  Method.  Command-centric execution of a coordinated Navy-wide BOM 
commemoration.
        (1) Use available Navy outreach assets to the maximum extent 
possible.
        (2) Be guided by, and supportive of, the Navy's strategic messaging.
    c.  End State:  The BOM commemoration becomes an institutionalized 
community outreach and Navy pride event for all Sailors, observed globally.

4.  Tasks:
    a.  Director, Navy Staff (DNS) will oversee planning and program 
development for the annual BOM commemoration.
    b.  Naval History and Heritage Command (NHHC):
        (1) Coordinate and support the execution of Midway commemoration 
events to include the execution of a Navy-wide observation and supporting 
community outreach events.
        (2) Establish a Working Group (WG) of key stakeholders to oversee 
planning and program development for the BOM commemoration.
            (a) Director, NHHC will serve as chairman of the BOM WG.
            (b) Track Navy-wide commemoration plans as they develop and 
coordinate with BOM WG members to identify and share available resources for 
the global execution of the BOM commemoration.
        (3) Develop a commemoration toolkit for use by Commander, U.S. Fleet 
Forces Command (COMUSFLTFORCOM), Commander, U.S. Pacific Fleet (COMPACFLT), 
Commander, Navy Installations Command (CNIC), Regional Commanders, Commanding 
Officers (CO), and Officers in Charge (OIC).
            (a) Develop and make available a body of lessons learned at the 
tactical, operational, and strategic levels from previous BOM commemorations.
            (b) Post all documents and associated points of contact on the 
NHHC website (https://www.history.navy.mil) NLT 10 April 2019.
        (4) Develop a BOM 77th Anniversary Communication Plan, including 
public affairs guidance, and provide to Chief of Naval Information (CHINFO) 
by 3 April 2019 for dissemination to the fleet.
        (5) Compile BOM lessons learned from stakeholders and provide to DNS 
NLT 19 July 2019.
    c.  COMUSFLTFORCOM; COMPACFLT; CNIC; Commander, Navy Reserve Force 
Command (COMNAVRESFORCOM); Commander, Naval Education and Training Command; 
and Commander, Naval Recruiting Command:
        (1) Provide representatives as necessary to support the BOM WG.
        (2) Ensure COs and OICs plan for and commemorate the 77th anniversary 
of the BOM.
        (3) Execute the BOM 77th Anniversary Communication Plan, disseminated 
by CHINFO, and participate in planned community outreach activities as 
operationally feasible.
        (4) Provide BOM lessons learned to NHHC NLT 21 June 2019.
    d.  CHINFO:
        (1) Provide representatives to the BOM WG.
        (2) Disseminate the BOM 77th Anniversary Communication Plan to ashore 
and afloat commands by 10 April 2019.  This plan should include Navy's 
strategic message and talking points for this event.
        (3) Coordinate with DMA to share BOM content that shows the 
importance of the battle.
        (4) Provide BOM lessons learned to NHHC NLT 21 June 2019.
    e.  Naval District Washington (NDW):
        (1) Host the Sea of White ceremony at 1000 (EST), Tuesday, 4 June 
2019.

5.  Coordinating Instructions:
    a.  Additional coordination instructions and tasking to be provided by 
separate correspondence as plans develop.

6.  Administrative:
    a.  The Midway toolkit will be available at the NHHC website 
(https://www.history.navy.mil) NLT 10 April 2019.
    b.  Public Affairs Guidance:
        (1) This is an active public affairs posture event.
        (2) Public affairs guidance will be provided SEPCOR.

7.  Point of contact.  NHHC POC is Mr. Alex Hays, (202) 433-0301, 
daniel.a.hays(AT)navy.mil.

8.  Released by Ms. Steffanie B. Easter, Director, Navy Staff.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//

