UNCLASSIFIED/

ROUTINE

R 071314Z MAY 15

FM CNO WASHINGTON DC

TO NAVADMIN

INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC

NAVADMIN 113/15

BT
UNCLAS

SUBJ/PUBLICATION OF BUPERSINST 1610.10D (EVALMAN)// 

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/MAY//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN announces the publication of BUPERSINST 1610.10D, Navy 
Performance Evaluation System (EVALMAN).  An electronic downloadable copy of 
the updated instruction is available at http://www.public.navy.mil/bupers-
npc/reference/instructions/
BUPERSInstructions/Pages/default.aspx.

2.  Summary of Changes:  This revision incorporates previous policy changes 
announced in BUPERSINST 1610.10C Change 1, BUPERSINST 1610.10C Change 2, 
NAVADMIN 183/11, NAVADMIN 219/11, NAVADMIN 028/13, and NAVADMIN 243/14.  In 
addition, the following new guidance applies with the updated instruction:
    a.  Allows a special report for officers who do not receive a fleet-up 
certification for command as required by OPNAVINST 1412.14.
    b.  Clarifies reporting responsibilities for a member incarcerated, or in 
an unauthorized absence or deserter status.
    c.  Adds language to the instruction concerning the Secretary of the 
Navy*s (SECNAV) energy goals.
    d.  Adds language to the instruction concerning reporting seniors 
evaluating commanders and commanding officers on the performance of their 
command in regards to the command*s personnel security program.
    e.  Adds language to the instruction concerning SECNAV*s direction on 
assessing officers and senior enlisted personnel on their contributions to 
building the innovative culture within the Department of the Navy.
    f.  Requires reporting seniors to document in block 41/47 (comments on 
performance) whether commanders, commanding officers, and officers-in-charge 
conducted required command climate assessments to reflect the requirements of 
Section 587 of FY-14 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA).
    g.  When grading block 34 (command or  organizational climate/equal
opportunity) for commanding officers, take into consideration whether they 
have established a command climate where allegations of sexual assault are 
properly managed and fairly evaluated; and a victim of criminal activity, 
including sexual assault, can report the criminal activity without fear of 
retaliation, including ostracism and group pressure from other members of the 
command to reflect the requirements of Section 508 of FY-15 NDAA.
    h.  Prohibits comments in block 41/43 (comments on performance) regarding 
a member*s potential for civilian employment.
    i.  Incorporates reserve-specific language where applicable throughout 
the instruction to clarify procedures and enhance active duty reports on 
reservists providing operational support.
    j.  Directs that Transition Assistance Program Military Life Cycle 
counseling for members is conducted as outlined in NAVADMIN 243/14.  A 
military life cycle fact sheet can be found at:
http://www.public.navy.mil/bupers-npc/career/transition/Pages/TAP.aspx.

3.  For questions concerning these policy changes contact the Navy Personnel 
Command call center at (866) U-ASK-NPC, 1 (866) 827-5672 or via e-mail at 
uasknpc(at)navy.mil.

4.  Released by VADM W. F. Moran, N1.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//

