UNCLASSIFIED//
ROUTINE
R 231331Z OCT 15
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC
BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 245/15

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N3N5/OCT//

SUBJ/ACADEMIC YEAR (AY) 2016-2017 FEDERAL EXECUTIVE FELLOWSHIP, U.S. NAVY 
HUDSON FELLOWSHIP, AND SECRETARY OF DEFENSE CORPORATE FELLOWS PROGRAM 
SELECTION BOARD RESULTS//

REF/A/MSG/CNO WASHINGTON DC/091422ZJUL15//

AMPN/Ref A is the Federal Executive Fellowship (FEF), U.S. Navy Hudson 
Fellowship, and SECDEF Corporate Fellows Program (SDCFP) selection board call 
for applications NAVADMIN (159/2015)//

RMKS/1.  In accordance with Ref A, this NAVADMIN announces the selection 
results of the AY2016-17 U.S. Navy Hudson Fellowship, Federal Executive 
Fellowship, and SECDEF Corporate Fellows Program (SDCFP) board.

2.  U.S. Navy Hudson Fellowship Program.  Congratulations to the following 
officers on their nominations for the U.S. Navy Hudson Fellowship at St. 
Antony's College, University of Oxford. The alternate selectees are listed in 
alphabetical order. 

   a.  Hudson Fellowship Primary Selectee
       NAME                   RANK   DESIG
       Hill, Christopher F.   CDR    1320
   b.  Hudson Fellowship Alternate Selectees
       NAME                   RANK   DESIG
       Orlich, Justin P.      CDR    1110
       Stephenson, Henry A.   CDR    1830

3.  Federal Executive Fellowship (FEF) Program.  Congratulations to the 
following officers on their selections to the FEF program. Primary selectees 
are listed with their assigned institution/university. Alternate selectees 
are listed in alphabetical order: 

   a.  Federal Executive Fellow Primary Selectees
       NAME                   RANK   DESIG  INSTITUTION
       Gage, Geoffrey S.      CAPT   1310   Brookings Institution
       Gonzalezocasio, Javier CDR    1110   Johns Hopkins UNIV (APL)
       Hill, Katrina L.       CDR    1310   CTR New American Security
       Holmes, Robert L.      CDR    1320   MIT/Security Studies
       Murphy, Micah D.       LCDR   1110   CTR STRAT & INTL Studies
       Orlich, Justin P.      CDR    1110   Harvard Kennedy School
       Ricciardella, Ted C.   CDR    1320   Harvard Kennedy School
       Roberts, Colin M.      LCDR   1110   RAND Corporation
       Sanders, Gregg S.      CDR    1310   Tufts(Fletcher)/USNI
       Stephenson, Henry A.   CDR    1830   Duke University/Triangle
       Thompson, Joseph P.    CDR    1310   WASH INST NE POLICY
       Wiley, William H.      CDR    1120   Atlantic Council
       Young, Forrest O.      CDR    1310   Stanford University/Hoover
   b.  Federal Executive Fellowship Alternates
       NAME                   RANK   DESIG
       Aljilani, Cameron M.   LCDR   1120
       Carlstrom, Adam T.     CDR    1320
       Jaskowiak, Derek C.    LCDR   1110
       Kim, Henry S.          CDR    1110
       Kline, Jonathan P.     CDR    1310
       Leland, Gregory J.     CDR    1310
       Leos, Leonard M.       LCDR   1110
       Little, Eric A.        LCDR   1310
       Pitta, John T.         CDR    1310
       Sego, Jon C.           CDR    1110
       Sherrod, William R.    CDR    1310
       Shugart, Thomas H.     CDR    1120
       Simington, Christina   CAPT   1830
       Thomas, Steven W.      CDR    1320
       Vaughan, Jeremy T.     CDR    1310

4.  Secretary of Defense Corporate Fellows Program (SDCFP). Congratulations 
to the following officers on their selections for the SDCFP.  Primary and 
alternate selectees are listed in alphabetical order: 

    a.  SDCFP Primary Selectees:
        NAME                   RANK   DESIG
        Luckett, Michael D.    CAPT   1120
        Paparo, Samuel J. JR   CAPT   1310
    b.  SDCFP Alternate Selectees:
        NAME                   RANK   DESIG
        Erickson, Brian C.     CDR    1320
        Gage, Geoffrey S.      CAPT   1310
        Kline, Jonathan P.     CDR    1310
        Pak, Hui K.            CAPT   1200

5.  Primary selectees for all programs must accept or decline program 
assignment NLT 14 days from the date of this NAVADMIN.  Make written 
notification of acceptance or declination via email to the NAVPERSCOM and 
OPNAV POCs listed below with a copy to their respective community detailer:

6.  Point(S) of Contact:
    a.  NAVPERSCOM: LCDR ANGELIN GRAHAM; DSN 882-4056 OR COMM (901) 874-4056; 
E-MAIL: ANGELIN.GRAHAM(AT)NAVY.MIL. and CDR CHARLES WHITE; DSN 882-4100 OR 
COMM (901) 874-4100; EMAIL: CHARLES.D.WHITE(AT)NAVY.MIL
    b.  OPNAV PROGRAM MANAGER: LT JACK EAVES (N515); COMM (571) 256-4781; 
E-MAIL: JACK.EAVES(AT)NAVY.MIL.

7.  Released by RADM Jeffrey A. Harley, Assistant Deputy CNO, for Operations, 
Plans and Strategy (N3/N5B)//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
