UNCLASSIFIED
ROUTINE
R 271438Z JUL 17
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 181/17

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/DNS/JUL//

SUBJ/GUIDANCE FOR ACCESS AND ECHELON RESPONSIBILITIES FOR TRACKING SERVICE 
TREATMENT RECORDS FOR ALL UNITED STATES NAVY ACTIVE/ SELECTED RESERVE SERVICE 
MEMBERS(CORRECTED COPY)//

REF/A/MSG/CNO WASHINGTON DC/DNS/192157Z NOV 16//
REF/B/DOC/OSD/16 NOV 2015//
REF/C/DOC/BUMED/10 NOV 2015//
REF/D/MSG/SECNAV WASHINGTON DC/062126Z OCT 16//
REF/E/DOC/CNO/1 MAR 2017//
NARR/REFERENCE (A) IS NAVY-SPECIFIC ADMINISTRATIVE MESSAGE (NAVADMIN) 187/14, 
PROPER TRANSFER OF HEALTH SERVICE TREATMENT RECORDS OF TRANSITIONING SERVICE 
MEMBERS TO VETERANS ADMINISTRATION.  REFERENCE (B) IS DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE 
INSTRUCTION (DODI) 6040.45, DOD HEALTH RECORD LIFE CYCLE MANAGEMENT.  
REFERENCE (C) IS MANUAL OF THE MEDICAL DEPARTMENT, CHAPTER 16.  REFERENCE (D) 
IS DEPARTMENT OF THE NAVY MESSAGE (ALNAV) 066/16, GUIDANCE FOR ARCHIVING 
HEALTH SERVICE TREATMENT RECORDS (STRS) FOR DEPARTMENT OF THE NAVY (DON) 
ACTIVE/SELECTED RESERVE SERVICE MEMBERS.  REFERENCE (E) IS OPNAVINST 5400.45, 
THE CHIEF OF NAVAL OPERATIONS GUIDANCE FOR THE STANDARD NAVY DISTRIBUTION 
LIST.//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN announces the implementation of the Service Treatment 
Record (STR) tracking tool within the Navy Standard Integrated Personnel 
System (NSIPS) to assist commands with DON processes for the proper transfer 
of medical and dental records, hereafter known as STRs, to the Department of 
Veterans Affairs (VA) for transitioning Navy active and Selected Reserve 
Service members. As such, the Office of the Under Secretary of Defense for 
Personnel and Readiness has mandated a 45-calendar day submission timeline 
for all services to transfer STRs to the VA.  DON shall comply with the 
timeliness standards and make records available within 45-calendar days from 
the separation/retirement date from active duty.  For Reserve Component 
Service members who do not separate from service but file a VA benefits 
claim, STRs must be available within 45-calendar days after notification of 
pending claim.  This tracking tool will enhance the Navy enterprise ability 
to comply with the mandates as set forth in references (a) through (d).

2.  Background.  Per references (a) through (d), commanders, commanding 
officers (CO), and officers in charge (OIC) are responsible for ensuring STRs 
are properly and expeditiously closed out and shall ensure collaborative 
processes exist between the medical/dental and administrative departments to 
maintain custody of the Service member's STR.  Reference (b) requires STRs to 
be electronically transferred to the VA within 45-calendar days of separation 
to ensure Service member disability claims are processed within the 
established timelines set forth by the Secretary of the Navy.  This STR 
tracking tool is hereby implemented to leverage the personnel information 
already contained within NSIPS and to provide an automated solution for 
tracking and monitoring compliance.  The system will provide direct access to 
terminal leave data, separation data by unit identification code (UIC) and 
social security number, STR compliance performance reports, projected and 
actual separations, Service member's last five duty stations, and service 
member's contact information to assist with the due diligence process.
Ensuring that Service members experience an orderly transition to civilian 
life is of paramount importance and an important component of this transition 
is the timely transfer of the separating or retiring Service member's STR to 
the VA.

3.  STR Tracking Tool Access Request Process.
    a.  The intended access request process will roll out in three phases.  
Phase one is intended to allow Echelon II and III commands, as identified in 
reference (e), to initiate the request electronically via NSIPS self-service, 
route the request through the chain of command for review and recommendation, 
and then electronically submit to Navy Medicine Records Activity (NMRA) for 
approval.  Under phase one, Echelon II and III commands will have the 
opportunity to familiarize themselves with the tracking tool and determine 
additional commands that will require access during phases two and three.  
Once approved, the command will have access to data within NSIPS to identify 
trends in compliance.
    b.  Phases two and three will allow additional subordinate commands, as 
directed by their respective Immediate Superior in Command, the opportunity 
to initiate the request electronically via the NSIPS self-service, route the 
request through their chain of command for review and recommendation, and 
then electronically submit to NMRA for approval.  Phase two will also provide 
the ability for commands to familiarize themselves with the tracking tool and 
determine additional commands that will require access during phase three.  
Once approved, the command will have access to data within NSIPS to identify 
trends in compliance.
    c.  The System Access Authorization Request (SAAR-N) form from each 
requester must contain a list of UICs for which the command is requesting 
access in the role of STR Command User only.  If additional UICs are later 
identified under the same command, a separate SAAR-N form must be initiated 
and routed via the chain of command for approval following steps in paragraph 
3a.

4.  User Information.  Newsletters containing useful tracking tool 
information will be posted via a link under the User Information section of 
the NSIPS production page titled, What's New for You. This information is 
designed to assist commands with disseminating important information about 
the tracking tool and to assist first time users with screenshots of initial 
navigation steps.

5.  Training.  Tutorials will be available with step-by-step instructions 
within the main screen of the NSIPS production page for each available 
function within the tracking tool.  Tutorials will assist first time users 
with developing STR tracking competence and ensure the success of the system 
at each level within the Navy enterprise.

6.  Analytical Support.  Navy Medicine and NMRA will continue to provide 
analytical support to the stakeholders with current reports until Echelon II 
commands have received access to the system.  This will ensure all data is 
available within the system for performance monitoring post implementation.  
The target deadline to cease providing analytical support via the current 
reports is 1 September 2017.

7.  Responsibilities.
    a.  All echelons must work proactively with NMRA to identify personnel 
and/or commands that will require access to the tracking tool.
        (1) Commanders, COs, and OICs are responsible for all aspects of the 
STR disposition process for their units.
        (2) Echelon II and III commands, as identified in reference(e), will 
appoint an STR point of contact to serve as the Responsible Individual (RI) 
and an Alternate RI (ARI) for all STR Tracking Tool matters.  The STR 
Tracking Tool RI and/or ARI will coordinate with NMRA to communicate with all 
units that fall under their STR purview. Echelon II and III Commanders will 
e-mail STR RI and ARI contact information to NMRA at: 
usn.ncr.bumedfchva.mbx.nmra-navy-str(AT)mail.mil within 30 days of release of 
this NAVADMIN.
    b.  Bureau of Naval Personnel (BUPERS) responsibilities.
        (1) BUPERS shall provide NMRA with weekly separations lists until the 
tracking tool is fully operational, with a target end date of 1 August 2017.
        (2) Personnel Support Detachments (PSD) will continue to assist 
commands with the verification of separations for medical treatment 
facilities, clinics, ships, etc. within their area of responsibility (AOR).  
Once the tracking tool is fully operational within the PSD's AOR, submission 
of weekly separation lists will no longer be required.

8.  Reporting Requirements.  Navy Medicine will continue to provide a weekly 
report to the Office of the Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and 
Readiness, and separation data to the scanning contractor for processing.

9.  Released by VADM J. G. FOGGO, Director, Navy Staff.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
