UNCLASSIFIED/
ROUTINE
R 041510Z MAY 15
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
INFO ZEN/CNO WASHINGTON DC
BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 108/15

SUBJ/ACADEMIC YEAR 2015-2016 NAVAL WAR COLLEGE FLEET SEMINAR PROGRAM//

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/MAY//
REF/A/MSG/CNO WASHINGTON DC/160004ZAUG06//
AMPN/REF A IS NAVADMIN 233/06, JOINT PROFESSIONAL MILITARY EDUCATION FOR 
SENIOR ENLISTED LEADERS.//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN announces the 40th consecutive year of Joint 
Professional Military Education (JPME) for Senior Leaders.  The Naval War 
College (NWC) Fleet Seminar Program (FSP) offers joint intermediate level PME 
through a set of three courses:  Strategy and War (S&W), Theater Security 
Decision Making (TSDM), and Joint Maritime Operations (JMO), and is offered 
at multiple locations in keeping with Chief of Naval Personnel*s efforts to 
foster a deliberate and flexible learning environment.  Each course normally 
requires one academic year to complete.  All three courses are not offered 
simultaneously at all locations.  There is no tuition fee and course 
materials are provided on a loan basis at no cost to the students.

2.  The NWC FSP will be offered in 19 regional locations in the United States 
for academic year 2015-2016.  Planned locations and courses are:

    a.  Annapolis, MD (S&W, TSDM, and JMO)
    b.  Bangor, WA (S&W)
    c.  Dahlgren, VA (S&W)
    d.  Everett, WA (JMO)
    e.  Fort Worth, TX (JMO)
    f.  Great Lakes, IL (S&W)
    g.  Jacksonville, FL (TSDM and JMO)
    h.  Mayport, FL (S&W)
    i.  Millington, TN (TSDM)
    j.  New Orleans, LA (S&W)
    k.  Newport, RI (S&W, TSDM, and JMO)
    l.  Norfolk, VA (S&W, TSDM, and JMO)
    m.  Patuxent River, MD (S&W)
    n.  Pearl Harbor, HI (S&W, TSDM, and JMO)
    o.  Pensacola, FL (Whiting Field) (TSDM)
    p.  Port Hueneme, CA (JMO)
    q.  San Diego, CA (S&W, TSDM, and JMO)
    r.  Washington, DC (S&W, TSDM, and JMO)
    s.  Whidbey Island, WA (TSDM)

3.  FSP courses are similar in content and delivery methodology to the 
intermediate level program of study offered by the resident College of Naval 
Command and Staff in Newport, RI.  Seminars for each course meet one evening 
per week for approximately 34 weeks, commencing in early September 2015 and 
ending in May 2016.  Led by NWC adjunct faculty members, and supported by 
visiting NWC faculty, these courses replicate both the content and atmosphere 
of the resident courses of study. Successful completion of all three courses 
results in the award of a College of Naval Command and Staff diploma, as well 
as credit for intermediate level Joint Professional Military Education Phase 
One (JPME-I).  The FSP seminars at the 19 locations are conducted in-step 
with each other so it is possible for a student who is transferring to, or 
assigned temporary additional duty at another seminar location to attend 
class at that location.

4.  NWC accepts program applications from commissioned officers (active and 
reserve), selected command master chiefs, and civilian employees of the 
federal government, subject to the following eligibility requirements
:
    a.  Members of the sea services (Navy, Marine Corps, and Coast Guard) in 
grade lieutenant (O-3) or above, while officers from other services must be 
in grade lieutenant commander (O-4) or above.  Per reference (a), Chief of 
Naval Operations-designated command master chiefs are eligible for 
enrollment.  Civilian employees of the Federal government in the grade of 
general schedule (GS)-11 and above, or equivalent are also eligible for 
enrollment.
    b.  All applicants must have previously earned at least a baccalaureate 
degree.

5.  Qualified individuals currently stationed in areas listed in paragraph 2, 
or those who expect transfer to those sites prior to 1 September 2015 are 
encouraged to apply.  More information is available, and application must be 
made, at the NWC College of Distance Education website at 
http://www.usnwc.edu.  Once on the page, click on "Departments and Colleges," 
then click on "College of Distance Education," then "Fleet Seminar."  The 
application period will remain open until 30 June 2015.  NWC will make 
enrollment selections, and accepted applicants will be advised of their 
enrollment selection status by mid-August 2015.

6.  Request widest dissemination of the above information in activity plans 
of the day, plans of the week, base newspapers, base cable TV, and any other 
available appropriate media.  Regional coordinators at the sites listed in 
paragraph 2 are requested to pass this information to all Army, Marine Corps, 
Air Force and Coast Guard units and all reserve units located within safe-
driving distance of their site.

7.  Points of contact are Mr. Walter Stiles, who can be reached at (401) 841-
6519/DSN 841, or via e-mail at walter.stiles@usnwc.edu; Ms. Kelly Folger, who 
can be reached at (401) 841-6520/DSN 841, or via e-mail at 
kelly.folger@usnwc.edu, and Professor Timothy Garrold, who can be reached at 
(401) 841-6561/DSN 841 or via e-mail at timothy.garrold@usnwc.edu.

8.  This message is canceled for record purposes on 30 June 2016.

9.  Released by VADM W. F. Moran, N1.//

BT
#2629
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
