UNCLASSIFIED//

ROUTINE

R 111747Z SEP 19

FM CNO WASHINGTON DC

TO NAVADMIN

INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC

BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 212/19

PASS TO OFFICE CODES:
CNO WASHINGTON DC//N2N6//

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N2N6G3/SEP//

SUBJ//ADOBE FLASH PLAYER END OF LIFE NOTICE AND IMPACT ASSESSMENT//

REF/A/SECNAVINST 5230.15/10APR09//

REF/B/DDCION MEMO/5000/SER N2N6BC/7U120021/27JAN17//

REF/C/DON OCIO MEMO/WARNORD/01JUL19//

NARR/REF A IS SECRETARY OF THE NAVY INSTRUCTION 5230.15 FOR INFORMATION 
MANAGEMENT/INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY POLICY FOR FIELDING OF COMMERCIAL OFF THE 
SHELF SOFTWARE.  REF B IS DEPUTY DIRECTOR CHIEF INFORMATION OFFICE (NAVY) 
MEMORANDUM DTD 27 JAN 17 FOR UPDATED RISK MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK IMPLEMENTATION 
EFFICIENCY.  REF C IS DEPARTMENT OF THE NAVY DIRECTOR CHIEF INFORMATION 
OFFICE MEMORANDUM FOR DEPARTMENT OF THE NAVY WARNING ORDER:  TRANSITION FROM 
ADOBE FLASH DTD 1 JULY 2019.// POC/WENCE/CIV/OPNAV N2N6G33/TEL: 571-256-8513
/EMAIL:  DEAN.E.WENCE(AT)NAVY.MIL//

RMKS/1.  The purpose of this NAVADMIN is to inform the Navy that Adobe Flash 
will no longer be supported.  Navy users must stop using Adobe Flash per 
references (a) through (c) by 31 December 2020.

2.  Adobe Flash is a multimedia software platform that many developers have 
used to produce digital animations, 2D/3D graphics, simulations, and 
streaming audio and video.  This digital content is then made available for 
on-line viewing in a browser through use of the Flash Player plug-in.  Flash 
is currently used throughout the Navy in applications and systems, such as 
on-line training courses, technical and repair manuals, and desktop 
applications.

3.  Per Adobe, Flash Player will go end of life on 31 December 2020.  In 
their official public announcement, Adobe stated that in collaboration with 
their technology partners, they would stop updating and distributing the 
Flash Player and encourage content creators to migrate any existing Flash 
content to new open formats.  As a result, Microsoft, Google and Mozilla 
announced that Flash Player plug-in will be disabled by default in their 
browsers.

4.  As part of a holistic approach, Deputy Director Chief Information Office 
(Navy) will direct an impact assessment via DON Tracker to the Echelon II 
Chief Information Office (CIO).  Each Echelon II CIO shall evaluate the scope 
of Flash in their portfolios and provide an initial cost and resource 
estimate to transition off of Flash.  Specific instructions will be added to 
the tasker with the ultimate goal of fully assessing scope of impact and 
identification of potential course of actions.

5.  Reference documents are available on the following SharePoint
link: https://portal.secnav.navy.mil/orgs/OPNAV/N2N6/DDCION/N2N6BC1
/ESL/SitePages/Home.aspx

6.  Released by VADM Matthew J. Kohler, Deputy Chief of Naval Operations for 
Information Warfare, OPNAV N2N6.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//

