UNCLASSIFIED

ROUTINE

R 141502Z SEP 15

FM CNO WASHINGTON DC

TO NAVADMIN

INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC

BT
UNCLAS
NAVADMIN 216/15

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N2N6BC/AUG//

SUBJ/ CYBER HYGIENE AUTHORIZATION TO USE PERSONAL WEARABLE FITNESS DEVICES 
(E.G. FITBIT, JAWBONE UP, ETC.) IN NAVY SPACES//

REF/A/DOC/US Defense Intelligence Agency Ser U-15-0001/CIO-3 memo of May 
2014//

REF/B/DOC/DoDM 5200.01, Volume 3

REF/C/DOC/Federal Communications Commission Office of Engineering and 
Technology Bulletin Number 62, February 1996, Understanding the FCC 
Regulations for Computers and Other Digital Devices

REF/D/DOC/SECNAV M-5510.30

AMPN/Reference (a) is the Defense Intelligence Agency (DIA) policy regarding 
the use of personal wearable fitness devices in DIA spaces.  Reference (b) 
sets forth information security requirements/direction for Command Security 
Managers to follow.  Reference (c) defines the baseline for devices being 
categorized as a Class B.  Reference (d) provides personnel security 
requirements/direction for Command Security Managers.// POC/Ms. Brooke 
Zimmerman/CIV/OPNAV N2N6BC4/TEL:  (571)256-8521/
DSN:  260-8521/E-MAIL:  Brooke.Zimmerman(at)navy.mil////

RMKS/1.  Consistent with references (a) and (b), Personal Wearable Fitness 
Devices (PWFD) are hereby authorized in Navy spaces in accordance with the 
specifications below.

2.  Scope and Applicability.  This message applies to all Navy military, 
civilian, and support contractor personnel.  Visitors not meeting the scope 
and applicability of this message are not authorized to introduce these 
devices in Navy spaces where collateral classified information is processed, 
stored or discussed.

3.  Discussion.
    a.  Consistent with references (a) and (b), effective immediately, all 
Navy personnel are hereby authorized, subject to local policy and capability 
limitations below, to wear PWFDs (e.g., Fitbit, Jawbone Up, Nike Fuel Band, 
etc.) in all Navy spaces where collateral classified information and 
controlled unclassified information is processed, stored, or discussed.  This 
authorization is applicable to Navy spaces located within the Continental 
United States, Alaska, and Hawaii.  This authorization does not address 
wearing PWFDs in Sensitive Compartmented Information Facilities.
    b.  PWFDs are permitted:
        (1) If commercially available in the United States (U.S.) or through 
a U.S. military exchange, marketed primarily as fitness or sleep devices, and 
designated as Federal Communication Commission (FCC) Class B digital devices 
(denoted as FCC Class B certified, or FCC Class B exempt) as described in 
reference (c).
        (2) If they have Bluetooth, GPS (receive only), accelerometer, 
altimeter, gyroscope, heart activity, vibration feature, or near field 
communication capabilities.
        (3) If they receive and contain vendor-supplied software updates that 
do not add any features or capabilities prohibited below.
    c.  PWFDs are prohibited:
        (1) If they contain any external or conflicting hardware or software 
modifications, including the installation of third party apps.
        (2) If they contain cellular or Wi-Fi, photographic, video 
capture/recording, microphone, or audio recording capabilities.
        (3) In conjunction with USB accessories, including but not limited to 
Bluetooth dongles and charging cables.
        (4) From being connected to any government information systems.
    d.  Responsibilities:
        (1) Commands must ensure all personnel have read and understand this 
NAVADMIN in its entirety, and must ensure personnel know PWFD electronic 
emanations are subject to inspection and monitoring.
        (2) Personnel who introduce PWFDs into areas where collateral 
classified information and controlled unclassified information is processed, 
stored, or discussed are responsible for ensuring their PWFDs meet the 
criteria outlined above.
	(3) Personnel who knowingly or willfully violate the requirements in 
this NAVADMIN may be subject to a preliminary inquiry in accordance with 
reference (b) and an incident report in the Joint Personnel Adjudication 
System per reference (d).

4.  This message was coordinated with Deputy Under Secretary of the Navy 
(DUSN) for Policy Security as part of the Department of the Navys 
cybersecurity/traditional security partnership for the protection of national 
security information and information systems.

5.  This NAVADMIN will remain in effect until cancelled or superseded.

6.  Released by VADM Ted N. Branch, Deputy Chief of Naval Operations, 
Information Dominance, OPNAV N2/N6.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
