UNCLASSIFIED//
ROUTINE
R 251329Z AUG 15
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC
BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 202/15

SUBJ/FISCAL YEAR 2015 COPERNICUS AWARD

MSGID/NAVADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC//N2/N6/AUG//
POC/LT Mark Obradovich/OPNAV N2/N6C1/TEL:  (703) 604-6288/Email:  
Mark.Obradovich(at)navy.mil//

RMKS/
    1.  The Copernicus Award was established to recognize individual 
contributions to naval warfare in Command, Control, Communications, 
Computers, and Intelligence (C4I), information systems, cyber operations, and 
information warfare.  The award is sponsored by the Armed Forces 
Communications and Electronics Association (AFCEA) and the U.S. Naval 
Institute (USNI).

    2.  Award criteria and eligibility.  Fiscal year 2015 nominees must have 
made a specific, demonstrable contribution to the advancement of C4I, 
information systems, cyber operations, or information warfare.  Contributions 
can be technical in nature, but may also originate from doctrinal, financial, 
organizational, or other dimensions of information systems.  The contribution 
should involve exceptional initiative, leadership, and insight within the 
nominees area of expertise.  All Navy, Marine Corps, Coast Guard, and Civil 
Service personnel are eligible for nomination.  Up to 30 awardees will be 
selected.  Each nominating command is limited to two nominees.  No contractor 
or team (more than one person) nominations will be accepted.  Nominations 
must be unclassified.

    3.  Nominations and presentation.  The awardees will be selected through 
nominations from Navy, Marine Corps, and Coast Guard (including Joint/North 
Atlantic Treaty Organization) commands, afloat and ashore.  Nominations must 
be on letterhead and submitted by email in PDF format.  Nominations for 
Commanding Officers or Officers in Charge must be signed by their immediate 
superior in command.  Flag endorsements and letters of recommendation are 
neither required nor desired.  The nomination template and additional 
nomination package information, as well as the most up-to-date point of 
contact information can be found at 
http://www.AFCEA.org/awards/CopernicusNominations.asp.  Nominations are due 
to the point of contact no later than 3 November 2015.  Late nominations will 
not be considered.

    4.  AFCEA/USNI will make final selections and OPNAV will announce the 
awardees via NAVADMIN.  The annual Copernicus Awards ceremony will be held 
17-19 February 2016 at the AFCEA/USNI West conference in San Diego, CA.  The 
AFCEA/USNI East conference will be held in Baltimore, MD and the date has not 
yet been determined, but will be announced via separate correspondence.

    5.  Released by VADM T. N. Branch, OPNAV N2/N6.// BT

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
