UNCLASSIFIED//
ROUTINE
R 071159Z OCT 15
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC
BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 233/15

MSGID/GENADMIN CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/OCT//

SUBJ/PHYSICAL READINESS PROGRAM POLICY CHANGES UPDATE 1:  ENLISTED POLICIES 
(CORRECTED COPY)//

REF/A/MSG/CNO WASHINGTON DC/031159ZAUG15//
REF/B/DOC/BUPERS/1MAY15//
REF/C/DOC/BUPERS/2NOV07//
REF/D/DOC/COMNAVPERSCOM/5NOV14//
REF/E/DOC/COMNAVPERSCOM/19DEC11//
REF/F/DOC/COMNAVPERSCOM/2FEB13//
REF/G/DOC/OPNAV/11JUL11//
REF/H/MSG/CNO WASHINGTON DC/292315ZDEC10//
REF/I/DOC/COMNAVPERSCOM/24APR13//
REF/J/DOC/COMNAVPERSCOM/2SEP10//
REF/K/DOC/OPNAV/20DEC05//
REF/L/DOC/COMNAVPERSCOM/23MAR07//
REF/M/DOC/COMNAVPERSCOM/20SEP11//
NARR/REF A IS NAVADMIN 178/15, PHYSICAL READINESS PROGRAM POLICY CHANGES.  
REF B IS BUPERSINST 1610.10D, NAVY PERFORMANCE EVALUATION SYSTEM.  REF C IS 
BUPERSINST 1430.16F, ADVANCEMENT MANUAL FOR ENLISTED PERSONNEL IN THE U.S. 
NAVY AND U.S. NAVY RESERVE.  REF D IS MILPERSMAN 1160-120, HIGH YEAR TENURE.  
REF E IS MILPERSMAN 1830-040, TRANSFER TO FLEET RESERVE AND RELEASE FROM 
ACTIVE DUTY. REF F IS MILPERSMAN 1910-170, SEPARATION BY REASON OF PHYSICAL 
FITNESS ASSESSMENT (PFA) FAILURE.  REF G IS OPNAVINST 6110.1J, PHYSICAL 
READINESS PROGRAM.  REF H IS NAVADMIN 420/10, NEW POLICY REGARDING 
INVOLUNTARY SEPARATION PAY FOR PHYSICAL FITNESS ASSESSMENT FAILURE.  REF I IS 
MILPERSMAN 1160-030, CERTAIN ENLISTMENTS AND REENLISTMENTS UNDER CONTINUOUS 
SERVICE CONDITIONS.  REF J IS MILPERSMAN 1160-040, EXTENSION OF ENLISTMENTS.  
REF K IS OPNAVINST 1900.4, SEPARATION PAY FOR INVOLUNTARY SEPARATION FROM 
ACTIVE DUTY. REF L IS MILPERSMAN 1920-030, INVOLUNTARY SEPARATION PAY (NON- 
DISABILITY) - DEFINITIONS AND POLICY.  REF M IS MILPERSMAN 1920-040, 
INVOLUNTARY SEPARATION PAY (NON-DISABILITY) ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA AND 
RESTRICTIONS.//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN details the changes to physical readiness policies for 
enlisted personnel announced in reference (a) and specifies the process by 
which an enlisted Sailor pending separation as a result of failing three 
physical fitness assessments (PFA) in the most recent 4-year period may be 
retained until they are able to participate in the Cycle 1 2016 PFA.

2.  Affected Enlisted Personnel Policies:
    a.  Evaluation Policy:  Reference (b) remains in effect until 31 December 
2015 at which point updated guidance will be promulgated.  Any Sailor 
possessing three PFA failures in the most recent 4-year period shall continue 
to receive evaluation grades per reference (b).  No special evaluation is 
permitted for these Sailors until 1 January 2016, per paragraph 3 below.
    b.  Advancement Policy:  Reference (c) remains in effect. Advancement 
policy in upcoming advancement cycles (Cycles 230, 231, and 232) will be 
consistent with previous policy.
    c.  High Year Tenure Policy:  Reference (d) remains in effect.
    d.  Fleet Reserve Policy:  References (e) and (f) remain in effect.
        (1) Sailors who have submitted Fleet Reserve or retirement requests 
due to multiple PFA failures must continue their Fleet Reserve or retirement 
processing.  Career Progression Division (PERS-8), in coordination with the 
enlisted community managers (ECMs), may approve a request for cancellation of 
a Fleet Reserve or retirement request based on community needs or manning on 
a case-by-case basis.
        (2) Per reference (f), Sailors who are required to submit a request 
to PERS-8 for an adjustment to an approved Fleet Reserve or retirement date 
due to PFA failure must still submit this request.
    e.  Permanent Change of Station (PCS) Transfer Policy:  Pending a 
permanent revision to reference (g), transfer policy is modified as follows:
        (1) Unless the most recent PFA was passed, Sailors who have failed 
one PFA in the past three years will not be assigned to:

(a) Overseas billets;
(b) GSA/OSA;
(c) PCS/Mobilization;
(d) Pre-commissioning billets;
(e) Recruiting division commander assignments;
(f) Recruiting duty;
(g) Equal opportunity advisor assignments;
(h) Washington, DC and Millington, TN staffs;
(i) Combatant commander staff; or
(j) Instructor duty.
        (2) Changes to any program not listed above that has specific PFA 
requirements will be announced via revision to its governing instruction.
    f.  Administrative Separation Policy:
        (1) Sailors who met the requirements for mandatory separation 
processing per reference (g) as of 1 July 2015 and do not pass either a mock 
or official Cycle 2, 2015 physical readiness test (PRT) will resume 
separation processing on 1 December 2015 and are ineligible for the reset of 
PFA failures on 1 January 2016 cited in reference (a).
        (2) Sailors who failed their third PFA in the most recent 4-year 
period in the Cycle 2, 2015 PRT shall be processed for administrative 
separation and are ineligible for the reset of PFA failures on 1 January 2016 
cited in reference (a).
        (3) Sailors who are currently being processed for administrative 
separation due to PFA failures and choose to continue with the separation 
process instead of requesting to participate in the Cycle 2, 2015 PFA prior 
to 1 December 2015 shall be processed for administrative separation without 
delay.  Involuntary separation pay (ISP) will not be awarded.  The applicable 
separation program designator (SPD) code from the FT (physical standards) 
family shall be used.  For Sailors who have chosen to continue with 
separation, this guidance supersedes reference (h), specifically, they are 
not eligible for the CR (weight control) family of SPD codes.
        (4) Per reference (g), all commands are required to and shall capture 
"1 or all" PFA failures using NAVPERS 1070/613 documenting the failure with 
the Sailors acknowledgement.  If not already completed, verify all Sailors 
possessing a PFA failure from 1 July 2012 to present have the required 
NAVPERS 1070/613 completed and filed in their official military personnel 
record.
    g.  Retention Policy:  References (i) and (j) remain in effect; however, 
Sailors who do not meet evaluation requirements for continued retention due 
to PFA failures and do not have enough obligated service to remain in the 
Navy until they can participate in the Cycle 1, 2016 PFA are directed to 
paragraph 3 for guidance on the process to compete for retention.
    h.  There shall be no modification to any part of a Sailors record (i.e. 
evaluations, past advancement exam participation allowance, physical 
readiness information management system (PRIMS) historical, etc.) for data 
that was entered as a result of PFA failures prior to 31 December 2015.  
These are considered permanent record entries.

3.  Amplifying instructions for Sailors pending administrative separation who 
have insufficient obligated service to reestablish eligibility for retention 
and advancement under the new physical readiness standards promulgated in 
reference (a):
    a.  Active component Sailors with end of active obligated service (EAOS) 
or end of active obligated service (as extended) (SEAOS) and Selected Reserve 
(SELRES) Sailors with end of obligated service (EOS) or end of obligated 
service (as extended) (SEOS) between now and 31 December 2015 who have been 
ineligible to reenlist, extend or submit a Career Waypoints (C-WAY) 
application (if required) due to having three or more PFA failures in the 
most recent 4-year period and desire to be retained are authorized the 
following extensions:
        (1) As an exception to policy (ETP), they may submit an extension 
request via their command (service not to exceed 31 December 2015) to 
Enlisted Career Administration/Enlisted Boards (PERS-81) following the 
guidance at: http://www.public.navy.mil/bupers-
npc/career/enlistedcareeradmin/Pages/ReenExt.aspx.
            (a) The purpose of this extension is to allow these Sailors an 
opportunity to participate in the Cycle 2, 2015 PFA, without a C-WAY quota 
(if applicable).
            (b) This ETP extension will be offered to all Sailors in this 
category regardless of whether their total extension for one enlistment is 
greater than that authorized per reference (j).
            (c) If the total extension time is greater than authorized per 
reference (j), the personnel support office shall:
                1.  Prepare a hard copy extension as approved.
                2.  Submit a trouble ticket to the Navy Standard Integrated 
Personnel System (NSIPS) Help Desk attaching a copy of the PERS-8 ETP 
approval received above, a copy of the extension, and a copy of this NAVADMIN 
as authority.  The NSIPS Help Desk will assist the command in updating 
individual records accordingly.
        (2) Upon passing Cycle 2, 2015 PFA, a second extension request must 
be submitted (service not to exceed 30 June 2016) to PERS-81 following the 
guidance at:  http://www.public.navy.mil/bupers-
npc/career/enlistedcareeradmin/Pages/ReenExt.aspx with PRIMS results showing 
the Cycle 2, 2015 PFA results.
            (a) As an ETP, this action will not require a C-WAY quota (if 
normally required).
            (b) Follow-on actions required for retention are provided in 
reference (j).
    b.  Sailors with EAOS or SEAOS and EOS or SEOS between 1 January 2016 and 
30 June 2016 who are ineligible for retention or cannot submit a C-WAY 
application due to adverse evaluations as a result of past PFA failure 
history and desire to be retained are authorized an extension per the 
following:
        (1) Once the member successfully passes the official Cycle 2, 2015 
PFA, the Sailors command should submit an extension request to Navy Personnel 
Command following the guidance at: http://www.public.navy.mil/bupers-
npc/career/enlistedcareeradmin/Pages/ReenExt.aspx with PRIMS results showing 
the Cycle 2, 2015 PFA results.
        (2) Because this is an ETP, this action will not require a C-WAY 
quota (if applicable).
        (3) Requested extension length should be of sufficient duration to 
allow for processing of a future special evaluation and application in C-WAY 
(if applicable), but must not exceed 30 June 2016.
    c.  Effective 1 January 2016, all Sailors (except those specified in 
paragraph 2 above) with PFA (body composition assessment or PRT) failures in 
the most recent 3-year period will be reset to one failure.  C-WAY 
application eligibility rules will be updated to reflect the new limit of two 
failures in three years. The new 3-year cycle will be calculated forward 
based on the most recent PFA failure.  For Sailors who were ineligible prior 
to 1 January 2016, the following steps are required to submit a reenlistment 
request and reestablish advancement criteria:
        (1) Submit a special evaluation to restore advancement recommendation 
after 1 January 2016.  Sailors who have passed the Cycle 2, 2015 PFA, are 
authorized to receive a special evaluation to restore their advancement 
recommendation per references (b) and (c) once they are reset.  However, 
prior to passing the Cycle 1, 2016 PFA, these Sailors will not be eligible 
for reenlistment, extension (except as allowed in this NAVADMIN), or a C-WAY 
quota (if applicable).  Eligibility for retention requires that the member be 
promotable and recommended for retention on the last two graded evaluations 
per reference (i).  The second evaluation required to meet this will be 
covered in following paragraphs.
        (2) Pass the Cycle 1, 2016 PFA.  The Cycle 1, 2016 PFA begins on 1 
January 2016.  Sailors retained in the Navy by reference (a) are permitted to 
perform the Cycle 1, 2016 PFA less than four months after completion of their 
Cycle 2, 2015 PFA and document it as their official PFA for this cycle as an 
ETP to reference (g).  It is imperative that commands support an early PFA to 
the extent practical to allow Sailors and personnel administrators the proper 
amount of time to process special evaluations, communicate with ECMs, and 
initiate C-WAY resets (if required) for retention.
        (3) Submit a second special evaluation once a Sailor passes the Cycle 
1, 2016 PFA and PRIMS is updated.  This special evaluation is to eliminate 
the physical readiness deficiency and should state this purpose explicitly in 
block 41 or 43 (comments on performance). At this point, Sailors will become 
eligible to reenlist and request a C-WAY reenlistment quota (if applicable).
        (4) Once the evaluation is issued, commands should contact the 
applicable ECM to request a one-time in-rate, willing to convert application 
reset to compete for a reenlistment quota. Sailors, particularly those in 
overmanned ratings, and their supporting career counseling teams, are highly 
encouraged to maximize opportunity for retention by selecting three rating 
choices that match with Sailor aptitude in open ratings and year groups.
        (5) For those Sailors subject to C-WAY, all PFA results must be 
recorded in PRIMS, special evaluation(s) completed, and C-WAY application 
submitted by 30 April 2016, which is the deadline for all C-WAY applications.   
Applications submitted after this deadline will not be reviewed and enlisted 
contracts will not be extended for additional looks in C-WAY.
        (6) Sailors not subject to C-WAY policy must have their PRIMS and 
special evaluation(s) submitted prior to 31 May 2016 to allow proper 
processing of required retention paperwork.
        (7) Due to delays in implementing required information technology 
system changes to support the new PFA policy delineated in reference (a), 
command career counselors (CCC) should closely scrutinize Cycle 2, 2015 PFA 
data.  CCCs should edit the Cycle 2, 2015 PFA data on the C-WAY application 
with detailed notes describing why the data was changed.
    d.  ISP is authorized for Sailors who complete applicable actions 
specified in this NAVADMIN and compete for retention but are denied a C-WAY 
quota.  Previously submitted ineligible C-WAY applications (ineligible due to 
multiple PFA failures) will not be used to penalize the Sailor.  Sailors who 
request retention, pass both Cycle 2, 2015 and Cycle 1, 2016 PFAs, and submit 
a C-WAY application (if required) after 1 January 2016, but are not retained 
will be considered to have maximized their opportunity for retention and 
receive ISP at the appropriate rate per references (k), (l), and (m).

4.  For additional clarification, please contact the Navy Personnel Commands 
Customer Service Center at 1-866-U-ASK-NPC or via e-mail at UASKNPC@navy.mil.

5.  This NAVADMIN will remain in effect until 31 December 2016, or unless 
superseded by new policy, whichever occurs first.

6.  Released by Vice Admiral W. F. Moran, N1.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
