UNCLASSIFIED//

ROUTINE

R 011735Z JUN 15

FM CNO WASHINGTON DC

TO NAVADMIN

INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC

NAVADMIN 134/15

BT
UNCLAS

SUBJ/FY-16 NAVY GRADUATE EDUCATION UPDATE 

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/JUN//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN announces the FY-16 Navy graduate education quota 
plan.

2.  This plan provides education opportunities to enhance warfighting and 
support capabilities consistent with defense and Navy strategic guidance. 
This plan prioritizes programs that develop expertise in the Middle-East, 
Asia Pacific regions, cyberspace, undersea warfare, and energy plans and 
policy.  In addition, the plan provides the foundation to sustain our 
technological advantage and develop the skills to plan for and operate the 
Navy of the future while eliminating strategic and operational energy 
vulnerabilities.

3.  The FY-16 plan provides 1,534 funded opportunities for degree and non-
degree programs across the full spectrum of communities and ranks that 
include 498 quotas at Naval Postgraduate School (NPS),
129 quotas at top civilian universities, 241 quotas at Naval War College, 203 
quotas at Joint and other service colleges, 19 quotas at international 
military colleges, and 56 quotas dedicated to fellowship and training with 
industry opportunities.

4.  Enlisted graduate education opportunities will continue to be offered in 
the Applied Cyber Operations program, which allows up to five enlisted 
personnel per year to obtain a master's degree over 12 months in-residence at 
NPS.

5.  A new graduate education opportunity is available through Purdue 
University.  The Purdue Military Research Initiative (PMRI) provides tuition-
free doctoral and master*s programs across a range of subjects including 
alternative energy and energy efficient technologies for naval applications.  
More information can be found online at 
http://www.purdue.edu/research/vpr/idi/pmri/.

6.  The Navy continues to offer various fellowship programs, including the 
Federal Executive Fellowship (15 quotas/year), White House Fellowship (one 
quota/year), Secretary of Defense Corporate Fellowship (two quotas/year), 
Legislative Fellowship
(15 quotas/year), and the Navy Supply Corps Training with Industry program 
(four quotas/year).

7.  In addition, there are many other programs for officers to gain advanced 
education such as the political military master's program (eight 
quotas/year), the Olmsted Scholarship program (five quotas/year), the Law 
Education Program (seven quotas/year), and the Unrestricted Line Graduate 
Education Voucher Program
(125 quotas/year).

8.  Also in FY16, OPNAV N1 will be piloting a program for additional civilian 
institution quotas for URL officers not included in this quota plan.  While 
still in the planning phase, interim guidance for this pilot program is for 
TYCOMS to choose the Navy*s best and brightest officers for graduate 
education opportunities at the school of their choice.  This initiative will 
have 30 quotas within Navy*s FY17 Quota Plan.

9.  All Navy personnel are encouraged to explore education opportunities with 
their detailer or mentor as an integral part of a career development 
strategy.

10.  This message will remain in effect until superseded or canceled, 
whichever occurs first.

11.  Released by Vice Admiral W. F. Moran, N1.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
