UNCLASSIFIED//
ROUTINE
R 291809Z MAY 19
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC
BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 119/19

PASS TO OFFICE CODES:
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N2N6//
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N2N6//
MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N2N6/MAY//

SUBJ/CONFERENCE ROOM VIDEO TELECONFERENCING TRANSITION TO INTERNET PROTOCOL//

REF/A/DOC/DOD CIO MEMO of 27JUL17//
REF/B/MSG/COMUSFLTFORCOM NORFOLK VA/181505Z MAY18//
REF/C/EMAIL/FLTCYBERCOM/C10F WARNO:  ISDN-BASED VTC/PHONE SERVICE CUTOFF of 
25APR19//
POC/THAYER/CIV/OPNAV/N2N6/TEL: (571) 256-8255
/EMAIL:  JAMEY.THAYER(AT)NAVY.MIL; JAMEY.THAYER(AT)NAVY.SMIL.MIL//
POC/MITCHELL/CIV/OPNAV/N2N6/TEL: (703) 695-7460
/EMAIL:  DARRYL.MITCHELL(AT)NAVY.MIL; DARRYL.MITCHELL(AT)NAVY.SMIL.MIL//

RMKS/1.  Reference (a) is the Department of Defense (DoD) Chief Information 
Officer (CIO) memorandum for legacy networking technologies which mandated a 
DoD-wide transition away from Integrated Services Digital Network (ISDN) to 
Internet Protocol (IP) by 1 September 2022.  Reference (b) is the Commander, 
United States Fleet Forces Command (COMUSFLTFOR) message to all commands for 
modernization of legacy technologies which explained the impact of the DoD 
CIO memo for the Navy enterprise.  Reference (c) is Fleet Cyber Command/U.S. 
TENTH Fleet (FCC/10th FLT) warning order for Video Teleconferencing (VTC) 
component owners to ensure total ISDN inventory removal prior to 30 September 
2019 to avoid mission degradation.//

2.  This message provides guidance on transitioning Navy Conference Room VTC 
suites from ISDN to IP connections and does not address related Time Division 
Multiplexing (TDM) circuitry which will be addressed in a subsequent 
NAVADMIN.  Most Navy shore VTC suites use ISDN connections which provide the 
VTC network through Low Speed TDM (LSTDM) technology, which is paid through 
users telephone service bill.  Commercial equipment manufacturers and long-
haul network providers are phasing out ISDN services over the next two years.  
Portions of the DoD Information Network (DODIN) infrastructure are past end 
of life, and vendors are ending maintenance and technical support.  The Navy 
has an undefined inventory of locally procured and operated Conference Room 
VTC systems using ISDN technologies that must transition to IP standards.  
The aggregation of IP and non-IP based VTC capabilities through Navy VTC 
gateways and VTC providers, continues to challenge Conference Room VTC 
connectivity and usability, directly leading to lost productivity and reduced 
collaboration within the Navy enterprise.  IP transition and hardware 
obsolescence drive the need to address hardware, network type-connection, and 
service provider solutions.

3.  In May 2019, ISDN connection contracts at the Navy ISDN VTC servicing 
organizations will start to end.  While some extension of ISDN support 
contracts may occur, only short term stop gaps are feasible.  Each time ISDN 
connections are reduced at the hosting sites, the ISDN VTC capacity across 
the Navy is reduced.  On 30 September 2019, Defense Information Systems 
Agency (DISA) Global Video Service (GVS) will stop providing connections to 
ISDN users.  Navy Continental United States (CONUS) and Hawaii ISDN VTC 
service providers are currently planned to sunset per below:

    a.  May 2019  Hampton Roads (4 Unclassified Lines)
    b.  September 2019  DISA GVS ISDN (All Lines)
    c.  May 2020  Hampton Roads (2 Secure Lines)
    d.  June 2020  Makalapa (All Lines)
    e.  April 2021  Hampton Roads (6 Secure Lines)
    f.  September 2021 - Charleston (All Lines)
    g.  April 2022  Hampton Roads (1 Allied Line)

4.  It is the responsibility of each organization to ensure its VTC 
requirements are met and current devices are converted to utilize IP 
transport.  To comply with reference (a), all commands using ISDN VTC 
hardware and services must transition to Video over IP as soon as practical 
based upon expected ISDN VTC service draw down.  There is no existing 
centrally or Mission Funded Navy VTC program and the scope of the enterprise 
user VTC hardware and service procurement challenges are not fully known.

5.  VTC Hardware and Software:  The following options are available for 
Conference Room VTC hardware and software acquisition and life cycle support:
    a.  CONUS Next Generation Enterprise Network (NGEN) contracted hardware 
as a service.  Information on these solutions can be found at 
https://homeport/services/vtc and executed through a NGEN Contract Line Item 
Number (CLIN) 14 video request.  This includes site survey, full 
installation, network connectivity, and lifecycle management.
    b.  CONUS/Outside CONUS (OCONUS) Working Capital Funded Echelon III (e.g. 
Naval Information Warfare Center Atlantic).  This includes site survey and 
full installation.
    c.  CONUS/OCONUS Independent Third Party (e.g. Small Business).  
Implementation of other locally procured IP VTC hardware that is compatible 
with GVS or NGEN requirements (refer to DODIN Approved Products List (APL)).  
This includes site survey and full installation.
    d.  OCONUS for IP access, utilize GVS software client offerings over 
OCONUS Navy Enterprise Network (ONE-Net) with individually purchased, DODIN 
APL compliant hardware and software.  This includes software (hardware and 
software as a service to be provided in follow-on NGEN-Recompete (NGEN-R) 
contract OCONUS).

6.  VTC Connectivity/Transport:  The following options are available for VTC 
Network and Transport as a Service:
    a.  CONUS transition to Navy and Marine Corps Intranet (NMCI) IP VTC.  
Information can be found at https://homeport/services/vtc and executed 
through a NGEN CLIN 14 video request.  This includes site survey, network 
connectivity, full installation, and lifecycle management.  As a basic 
service, this also includes NMCI to NMCI VTC connection.  Bridging and 
peering with non-NMCI partners is an orderable CLIN.
    b.  OCONUS ONE-Net provides regional IP connectivity and transport to 
OCONUS users.  This IP network supports DODIN APL compliant conference room 
VTC equipment.  NGEN-R transition will provide the opportunity for an OCONUS 
enterprise single solution.
    c. CONUS/OCONUS transition to DISA GVS independent of NMCI/ONE -Net.  The 
end user site must use existing or command procured IP transport NIPR or SIPR 
by processing a Telecommunications Service Request (TSR) via DISAs Defense 
Information Technology Contracting Organization (DITCO) and Naval Circuit 
Management Office (NCMO).  Mission partners may request service by contacting 
the Defense Information Systems Network (DISN) Customer Contact Center
(DCCC) toll free: (844) 347-2457, commercial (614) 692-0032, or DSN 312-850-
0032.
    d.  Pentagon Only Transition to DISA Joint Service Provider
(JSP) with locally or enterprise procured IP capable hardware, JSP can 
provide network transport to the DODIN in support of either DISA GVS or NGEN 
VTC application suites.

7.  VTC Applications:  The following enterprise VTC applications are
available:
    a.  DISA GVS.  The GVS Web Application provides users with the 
capabilities to register end points, initiate reservation-less ad hoc VTCs, 
schedule future VTCs, and receive reports summarizing GVS usage.  Through the 
use of existing or locally procured IP based hardware, DISA GVS provides a 
full suite of on-demand video conference capabilities (NIPR/SIPR) built to 
support conference rooms across the DoD as well as a desktop video solution.  
For GVS -Unclassified (GVS-U), users must complete account registration at 
https://globalvideoservices.csd.disa.mil/gvs-web; and to use GVS -Classified 
(GVS-C) at https://globalvideoservices.csd.disa.smil.mil
/gvs-web.
    b.  NGEN Fixed Video Teleconference.  Through the use of existing or 
locally procured IP based hardware (monitor with integrated camera and 
microphone), NMCI CLIN 14 provides NMCI users the ability to initiate and 
participate in live video teleconferences with other NMCI and non-NMCI users 
(unclassified and classified).  Point to point can be conducted immediately; 
multi-user VTC requires prior scheduling.  Information can be found at 
https://homeport/services /vtc.

8.  By not using an enterprise option (e.g. NGEN, GVS, or JSP), procurers of 
VTC capability and network transport assume all responsibility for life cycle 
management, quality of service, and processing Authority To Operate actions.  
Connections made through NGEN, DISA, or JSP contract vehicles, inherit the 
intrinsic cybersecurity of its respective network architectures.  Where these 
enterprise options do not meet user needs, and command specific VTC 
initiatives are deemed an operational imperative (e.g. USFFC consolidation 
and standardization of a single VTC enclave interoperable with NMCI, DISA and 
the afloat enterprise), the Risk Management Framework (RMF) scope of work is 
not to be underestimated and should be commenced as early as feasible to 
achieve ISDN sunset timelines.

9.  Useful cases have identified other solutions to help reduce dependencies 
on conference room VTCs to include Defense Collaboration Services (DCS), 
SharePoint and others.  Further, NMCIs inclusion of Voice over IP, Unified 
Capabilities (e.g. MS-O365, Skype for Business), and an orderable GVS CLIN, 
over time, should reduce dependencies on Conference Room VTC and telephone 
needs.  Commands should transition as few Conference Room VTCs as necessary 
to reduce hardware buys and lifecycle costs.

10.  Navy, working cooperatively with DISA, through the use of existing 
working groups (e.g. Unified Capabilities Integrated Product Team) or senior 
forums (e.g. DISA/Navy/USMC Drumbeat) will consider options for the removal 
of the challenges being experienced by the Navy provider enterprise in 
communicating efficiently with both academia and industry partners.

11.  Echelon II commands will aggregate all sub-echelon command plans for 
Conference Room VTC conversion to IP technology and provide to OPNAV N2N6 POC 
for collection and reporting to Director, Navy Staff (DNS) on the status of 
Conference Room IP conversions.  Follow-on reports and compliance plans are 
required if a delay greater than 90 calendar days occurs.  Incremental 
reports to DNS staff will include any changes in enterprise options both 
CONUS and OCONUS as described herein.

12.  Released by VADM Matthew J. Kohler, Deputy Chief of Naval Operations for 
Information Warfare, OPNAV N2N6.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//

