UNCLASSIFIED
ROUTINE
R 261654Z OCT 15
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC
BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 249/15

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/OCT//

SUBJ/FY-17-1 TEST PILOT SCHOOL SELECTION BOARD//

REF/A/DOC/BUPERS/5OCT10//
AMPN/REF A IS BUPERSINST 1500.62B, TEST PILOT SCHOOLS.//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN announces convening of the U.S. Naval Test Pilot 
School (USNTPS) selection board on 10 February 2016.  This board will select 
highly qualified Naval Aviators and Naval Flight Officers (NFO) for USNTPS.  
In particular, NFO applicants are in high demand.  Request command and fleet 
community assistance to identify candidates with strong operational 
performance and, ideally, strong academic backgrounds in science, technology, 
engineering and math (STEM) fields of study.  USNTPS graduates have 
significant and long-lasting influence on platforms and systems, and thus 
directly impact the future warfighting capability of their fleet community.  
The Naval Postgraduate School/USNTPS cooperative program will not be offered 
during this board or in the near future.

2.  To be eligible for board consideration, a command-endorsed application 
per reference (a) must be received by Navy Personnel Command (NPC) Customer 
Service Center (CSC) no later than 15 January 2016.  Additional 
documentation, such as January 2016 FITREPS, will be accepted until 9 
February 2016.  The command endorsement shall address whether the applicant, 
if selected, will be allowed and available to report for initial training as 
early as April 2016.  The service member's e-mail address(es), phone 
number(s), college transcripts, and post-USNTPS test squadron assignment 
preferences must be included with the application.

3.  Application package submissions:
    a.  Applications may be sent via U.S. Postal Service to the following 
address:
    Navy Personnel Command
    FY-17-1 Test Pilot School Selection Board (Board #220)
    Customer Service Center (PERS-1)
    5720 Integrity Drive
    Millington, TN 38055
    b.  Applications sent via Federal Express, United Parcel Service, or DHL 
Express should use the following address:
    Navy Personnel Command
    FY-17-1 Test Pilot School Selection Board (Board #220)
    Customer Service Center (PERS-1)
    5640 Ticonderoga Loop, Bldg 768, RM E302
    Millington, TN 38055
    c.  PDF submissions in advance of hardcopy will be accepted for those 
applicants who have exhausted all other means of delivery.
E-mail encrypted PDF submissions to cscselboard(at)navy.mil.

4.  Applicants should confirm receipt of their application package and all 
correspondence by selecting the customer service link at 
https://ahdsedstws16.ahf.nmci.navy.mil/OA_HTML/npc.html or by calling the NPC 
CSC at 866-U-ASK-NPC/DSN 882.

5.  Eligibility:
    a.  Designated Naval Aviators and NFOs through the grade of lieutenant 
commander are eligible for selection (1310, 1320, 1510).
    b.  The preferred unrestricted line (URL, 13x0) aviators are junior 
officers (O-2 or O-3) with detailer-forecasted career timing to complete the 
selected USNTPS program and at least a 24-36 month follow-on test tour prior 
to their expected department head tour. If there are not enough qualified 
junior officers to meet requirements, lieutenant commanders with exceptional 
records may be selected, provided they can meet applicable career milestones.
    c.  Aerospace engineering duty officer (1510) aviators through the grade 
of lieutenant commander may be selected if they are able to serve a 24-36 
month follow-on test tour and still meet career milestones.
    d.  Applicants determined to have insufficient career timing may have 
their application removed from consideration.

6.  Applicants should periodically check for updates and additional 
information at the USNTPS board website at http://www.public.navy.mil/bupers-
npc/boards/administrative/testpilot/Pages/default.aspx.

7.  Points of contact are CDR Eric Gardner, PERS-434B at (901) 874-4106/DSN 
882 or via e-mail at eric.m.gardner(at)navy.mil or Mrs. Shirley Murphy, PERS-
434B1 at (901) 874-2437, via e-mail at filisa.murphy(at)navy.mil.

8.  This message will remain in effect until superseded or canceled.

9.  Released by Vice Admiral W. F. Moran, N1.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
