UNCLASSIFIED
ROUTINE
R 271514Z MAR 17
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC
BT
UNCLAS
PASS TO OFFICE CODES:
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//

NAVADMIN 072/17

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/MAR//

SUBJ/NAVY GENERAL MILITARY TRAINING OVERHAUL//

REF/A/MSG/CNO WASHINGTON DC/261702ZJUL16//

AMPN/REF A IS NAVADMIN 166/16, FY-17 GENERAL MILITARY TRAINING SCHEDULE.//

RMKS/1.  In an effort to remove administrative distractions and improve 
leader engagement, effective immediately, no individual shall be required to 
log onto Navy Knowledge Online (NKO), Navy eLearning or My Navy Portal (MNP) 
to complete annual General Military Training (GMT) mandatory training topics, 
as specified in reference (a), with the exception of the Cyber Awareness 
Challenge V4, (D0D-IAA-V14.0).  Additionally, all optional and discretionary
Navy Command Assigned Readiness Enhancement GMT training topics are hereby 
removed.

2.  The Cyber Awareness Challenge V4 (DOD-IAA-V14.0) course found on NKO, 
Navy eLearning or MNP remains the only on-line all-hands training 
requirement.  All other topics may be completed by any means determined 
acceptable by local commands.  Commanding officers and each level of 
leadership shall seek to conduct GMT training at the small team level, with 
appropriate leaders engaging Sailors in group sizes small enough to allow 
meaningful discussion on these subjects, to include how they relate to 
character, as part of our continuing Fleet-centered leader development.  It 
puts training back in the hands of Sailors, eliminates passive, impersonal, 
and ineffective approaches to training, and enables a powerful and personal 
focus on integrity, accountability, and character through an interactive 
learning dialogue.

3.  Existing training materials will remain on NKO, Navy eLearning and MNP to 
provide an outline to commands for conduct of local small-team leader lead 
training.  There is no intent for commands to re-create training lesson 
plans.  Topics such as Suicide Awareness, Equal Opportunity and Sexual 
Harassment, and Sexual Assault Prevention and Response require a more formal 
setting, and may benefit from supplementation by existing seminar discussion 
material available from Chart the Course or Full Speed Ahead training while 
other topics such as Records Management, Operations Security, and Privacy and 
Personally Identifiable Information, for example, may be conducted at 
quarters, all-hands calls, divisional training, etc., using a printed version 
of existing material as springboards to elicit discussion to the point that 
the leader is satisfied that the learning objectives are understood.

4.  There is no requirement to log accomplishment of GMT training in the Navy 
eLearning Learning Management System.  However, commands are encouraged to 
keep local records of training completion.

5.  We will continue to work to comprehensively improve GMT and all other 
eLearning through modernized techniques that are more engaging and 
personalized.  Additionally, you have asked for the ability to test out of 
entire courses or materials you already know, and we will build that in as 
this matures.

6.  There is no doubt this approach will yield an even greater competitive 
edge for the Navy.

7.  Bottom line - we heard you, we fixed it, now let us get after it.

8.  Released by Vice Admiral R. P. Burke, N1.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
