UNCLASSIFIED

ROUTINE

R 181410Z OCT 16

FM CNO WASHINGTON DC

TO NAVADMIN

INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC

BT
UNCLAS
PASS TO OFFICE CODES:
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//

NAVADMIN 230/16

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/OCT//

SUBJ/FY-18 NAVY ACTIVE-DUTY AND RESERVE E9, E8, AND E7 SELECTION BOARD 
MEMBERSHIP NOMINATIONS//

REF/A/DOC/BUPERS/10SEP14//

AMPN/REF A IS BUPERSINST 1401.5B, SUPPLEMENTAL GUIDANCE FOR U.S.
NAVY SELECTION BOARDS.//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN announces the solicitation of enlisted selection board 
participants for the FY-18 Navy Active-Duty and Reserve Master Chief, Senior 
Chief, and Chief Petty Officer selection boards.  The experience gained from 
exposure to the selection board process is critical to a master chiefs 
success as a leader.  Every master chief petty officer, not otherwise 
restricted from participating in an enlisted selection board, is strongly 
encouraged to volunteer to serve as a member on a FY-18 enlisted selection 
board.

2.  FY-18 enlisted board schedule:
    Reserve E9/E8 (combined) - 6 through 17 March 2017
    Active-Duty E9 - 3 through 14 April 2017
    Active-Duty E8 - 24 April through 12 May 2017
    Reserve E7 - 22 May through 9 June 2017
    Active-Duty E7 - 26 June through 21 July 2017

3.  Due dates for member and recorder applications to be received by 
Selection Board Membership Division, PERS-805:
    Reserve E9/E8 (combined) - 9 December 2016
    Active-Duty E9 - 16 December 2016
    Active-Duty E8 - 20 January 2017
    Reserve E7 - 17 February 2017
    Active-Duty E7 - 17 March 2017

4.  Prior to submitting an application, review reference (a) found on the 
following link: http://www.public.navy.mil/bupers-
npc/reference/instructions/bupersinstructions/documents/1401.5B.pdf.
In addition to membership criteria contained in reference (a) and on the 
Enlisted Selection Board Member/Recorder Application (NAVPERS 1400/2), the 
following also applies to selection board nominees:
    a.  Shall not have a relative (defined in reference (a)) serving on the 
same board in any capacity.
    b.  All Navy relatives (Active or Reserve) must be listed on the 
application form along with their rank/rate, even if not board eligible.
    c.  Shall not have been a member of the same board in the previous year.

5.  Additional information pertaining to selection board membership:
    a.  Frocked master chiefs may participate as selection board members and 
are strongly encouraged to do so.
    b.  In select circumstances, Navy Personnel Command (NPC) may provide 
permanent change of station (PCS) order modifications if an applicant with 
PCS orders is selected to serve on an enlisted selection board.  Selected 
board members should contact LCDR Michael Newman at (901) 874-4162/DSN 882 or 
via e-mail at michael.s.newman(at)navy.mil if this applies.  Do not contact 
your detailer directly as they may be eligible before the board.
    c.  Active-duty and reserve component master chiefs are encouraged to 
apply for any of the above boards.  There are no restrictions preventing one 
component from serving on a board of the other.
    d.  Senior chief petty officers and chief petty officers (to include 
frocked) may serve as recorders on any of the above boards for which they are 
ineligible.  In addition, senior chief petty officers may apply to be a 
member on either the reserve or active- duty E7 boards.  Petty officers (E6 
and below) may not serve on the boards in any capacity, no exceptions.

6.  NAVPERS 1400/2 can be downloaded from the NPC web site at
http://www.npc.navy.mil/bupers-
npc/reference/forms/Pages/default.aspx.

7.  The signed application must be endorsed by the members commanding officer 
(CO) and forwarded directly to their cognizant immediate superior in 
charge/type command (ISIC/TYCOM) command master chief (CMC).  The ISIC/TYCOM 
CMC will forward endorsed applications to Mr. Donald Marshall via e-mail at 
donald.p.marshall(at)navy.mil or will return the endorsed applications to the 
member so they send it personally.  In rare circumstances where the applicant 
does not have or is assigned to a joint command without a ISIC/TYCOM CMC, the 
application should be sent to Mr. Marshall by the commands senior enlisted 
leader (SEL), provided the SEL is not eligible for advancement on the board 
for which the applicant is submitting.  If you are unsure of your 
circumstance, please contact Mr. Marshall.

8.  Do not use request chits and do not forward applications through your 
commands administrative support personnel, including those of your CMC, CO, 
or those of your ISIC/TYCOM CMC.  This will compromise board membership and 
invalidate your application. Your application needs to go directly to your 
CMC. Forms received from or routed through individuals other than the 
applicant or their ISIC/TYCOM CMC, except as specified in paragraph 7 above, 
will not be considered.

9.  Board membership must be held in the strictest of confidence.
Once you submit an application, Commander, Navy Personnel Command
(CNPC) has ordered a policy of non-disclosure.  Do not discuss your 
application or your selection, if chosen, to serve on a board with anyone 
other than your CO, reporting senior, CMC, chief of the boat (if applicable), 
cognizant ISIC/TYCOM CMC, or board support personnel at NPC.  It is 
appropriate for a CMC to be told by a member in their command of that members 
board service.  However, the CMC may not disclose their own service on a 
board to anyone other than the CO.  Failure to adhere to this policy is a 
direct violation of the Uniform Code of Military Justice.  It will result in 
removal from the board and possible administrative or disciplinary action by 
CNPC.

10.  Careful consideration should be given to a nominees availability to 
serve as a selection board member.  CO concurrence for the nominee to 
participate on a board is required.  COs, CMCs, and the applicant should 
understand that once selected, the member is under official orders to the 
board and requests for removal from board duties will not be granted except 
in extreme cases as specified in reference (a).

11.  Point of contact is Mr. Donald Marshall at (901) 874-3223/DSN
882 or via e-mail at donald.p.marshall(at)navy.mil.

12.  Released by Vice Admiral R. P. Burke, N1.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
