UNCLASSIFIED
ROUTINE
R 181220Z DEC 15
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC
BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 290/15

MSGID/NAVADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N2/N6/DEC//

SUBJ/USE OF UNCLASSIFIED NAVY AND MARINE CORPS INTRANET LAPTOPS WITH EMBEDDED 
WIRELESS//

REF/A/DOC/DoD Directive 8100.02/23APR07//
REF/B/DOC/DoDM 5200.01, Volume 3/19MAR13//
NARR/Reference (a) is DoD Directive 8100.02, Use of Commercial Wireless 
Devices, Services, and Technologies in the Department of Defense (DoD) Global 
Information Grid.  Reference (b) is DoDM 5200.01, Volume 3, Change 2, DoD 
Information Security Program:  Protection of Classified Information.//
POC/MS. ANDI ST. JOHN/CIV/OPNAV N2/N6BC1/TEL: (571) 256-8512 
/ANDREA.STJOHN(AT)NAVY.MIL

RMKS/1.  Per references (a) and (b), this message establishes the policy for 
acceptable use of Navy and Marine Corps Intranet (NMCI) unclassified laptops 
with embedded Wi-Fi (802.11) capability in spaces where collateral classified 
information is processed.

2.  NMCI unclassified laptops, procured through the Next Generation 
Enterprise Network contract, are equipped with embedded Wi-Fi technology.  
Embedded Wi-Fi technology is provided to enable mobile networking, such as 
telework or travel; however, it is not designed for use in DoN spaces where 
classified information is processed.  Therefore, commands issuing NMCI 
laptops with embedded Wi-Fi to users whose official capacity requires them to 
work in DoN spaces where collateral classified information is processed must 
adhere to the following additional requirements:
    a.  Devices must be physically connected to the unclassified network 
(i.e. via network cable or placed in docking station) before powering on.  
Conversely, devices shall be powered off before being physically disconnected 
from the unclassified network. Following the above standard operating 
procedures will ensure the embedded wireless transmitter remains disabled 
while in spaces where collateral classified information is processed.
    b.  Disable the devices embedded wireless transmitter using the physical 
switch (toggle switch, push-button style, or airplane mode) prior to entry 
into, removal from docking station, or when operating within spaces where 
collateral classified information is processed.  Users are responsible for 
verifying the devices wireless transmitter has been disabled.
    c.  Navy commands must include the above requirements as part of command 
indoctrination, security orientation briefs, and annual Information Assurance 
Training.
    d.  Users issued devices with embedded wireless technology must be aware 
of and acknowledge the above requirements as an addendum to the System 
Authorization Access Request form, OPNAV 5239/14, prior to being granted 
permission to work in spaces where collateral classified information is 
processed.
    e.  Above requirements must be documented in the NMCI certification and 
accreditation baseline for specific make/model laptops to confirm that 
procedures are in place to prevent activation of the embedded Wi-Fi 
capability.

3.  Control measures outlined above, coupled with cyber and information 
security program coordination, will aid in mitigating risks to classified 
information and networks from wireless technology.  This is an intermediate 
step.  Additional measures to include wireless detection/jamming will be 
implemented via separate correspondence.

4.  This NAVADMIN will remain in effect until cancelled or superseded.

5.  Released by VADM Ted N. Branch, Deputy Chief of Naval Operations for
Information Dominance, OPNAV N2/N6.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
