UNCLASSIFIED
ROUTINE
R 101844Z DEC 15
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 283/15

MSGID/NAVADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/DEC//

SUBJ/NOTICE OF CONVENING FY-17 OFFICER CONTINUATION SELECTION BOARDS AND 
ANNOUNCEMENT OF CONTINUATION POLICY//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN announces the Active-Duty Officer Continuation 
Selection Boards.  The active-duty officer continuation selection boards will 
convene, when required, immediately following the corresponding FY-17 
promotion selection boards.  Eligible officers on the Active-Duty List who 
are fully qualified to remain on active duty and meet the requirements in 
paragraphs 2 through 4 will be considered for continuation.

2.  Lieutenant Commander (LCDR) Unrestricted Line, Restricted Line, and Staff 
Corps (Limited Duty Officers are discussed in Paragraph 3):
    a.  Twice failure of selection (2XFOS) LCDRs with 14-18 Years of Active 
Service (YOAS).  Officers selected for continuation will be continued until 
eligible for retirement at the completion of 20 YOAS.
    b.  2XFOS LCDRs with less than 14 YOAS.  Officers selected for 
continuation will be continued for a period of three years.
    c.  2XFOS LCDRs with 18 or more YOAS, as provided by law, will not be 
considered for continuation, but will be retained on active duty until 
retirement eligible at 20 YOAS.

3.  Commander, lieutenant commander, and lieutenant Limited Duty Officers 
(LDO):
    a.  All permanent LDOs selected for promotion in FY-17 who are subject to 
mandatory retirement for YOAS prior to their scheduled promotion dates and/or 
prior to completing the time-in-grade necessary to retire in the next higher 
grade after promotion will be considered for continuation.  If selected, 
these officers will be continued for a period sufficient to allow them to 
accept promotion and, as required, attain sufficient time-in-grade to retire 
at the higher grade.
    b.  All permanent LDOs who are on active duty at the time when the 
promotion board meets and are considered in zone for promotion and who are 
subject to mandatory retirement for YOAS prior to the end of FY-16 will be 
considered for continuation.  If selected, these officers will be continued 
for a period sufficient to allow them to accept promotion and, as required, 
attain sufficient time-in-grade to retire at the higher grade or, if not 
selected for promotion, until 30 September 2016.
    c.  2XFOS LDO LCDRs selected for continuation will be continued to 
retirement eligibility at the completion of 20 YOAS.

4.  Chief Warrant Officers (CWO):
    a.  All CWOs selected for promotion in FY-17 who are subject to mandatory 
retirement for YOAS prior to their scheduled promotion dates and/or prior to 
completing the time-in-grade necessary to retire in the next higher grade 
after promotion will be considered for continuation.  If selected, these 
officers will be continued for a period sufficient to allow them to accept 
promotion and, as required, attain sufficient time-in-grade to retire at the 
higher grade.
    b.  All CWOs who are on active duty at the time the promotion board meets 
and are considered in zone for promotion and who are subject to mandatory 
retirement for YOAS prior to the end of FY-16 will be considered for 
continuation.  If selected, these officers will be continued for a period 
sufficient to allow them to accept promotion and attain sufficient time-in-
grade to retire at the higher grade or, if not selected for promotion, until 
30 September 2016.

5.  Officers on the Active-Duty List who meet any of the criteria in 
paragraphs 2 through 4 shall check BUPERS Online, https://www.bol.navy.mil/, 
after release of the respective selection ALNAV message, to determine if they 
were selected for continuation. Once logged into BUPERS Online, click on 
Advancement, and then on the appropriate officer (Promotion/Continuation) 
board to determine the results.

6.  Promotion selection board convening dates are as follows:
    a.  Active O6 Line Promotion Selection Board convenes 12 January 2016. 
The Active O5 LDO Line Continuation Selection board will follow this board.
    b.  Active O6 Staff Corps Promotion Selection Board convenes 2 February 
2016.  The Active O5 LDO Staff Corps Continuation Selection Board will follow 
this board.
    c.  Active O5 Line Promotion Selection Board convenes 9 February 2016.  
The Active O4 Line Continuation Selection Board will follow this board.
    d.  Active O5 Staff Corps Promotion Selection Board convenes 22 March 
2016.  The Active O4 Staff Corps Continuation Selection Board will follow 
this board.
    e.  Active O4 Line Promotion Selection Board convenes 16 May 2016.  The 
Active O3 LDO Line continuation selection board will follow this board.
    f.  Active O4 Staff Corps Promotion Selection Board convenes 10 May 2016.  
The Active O3 LDO Staff Continuation Selection board will follow this board.
    g.  Active CWO3/4/5 Promotion Selection Boards convene 13 June 2016.  The 
Active CWO2/3/4 Continuation Selection Boards will follow these boards.

7.  Correspondence addressed to the promotion selection board will not be 
forwarded to a subsequent continuation selection board for consideration.  
Officers must communicate with each board separately.

8.  Only eligible officers may communicate with a continuation selection 
board.  Correspondence must arrive no later than the day before the convening 
date of the board and shall be addressed to:
    Navy Personnel Command Customer Service Center
    President, Active FY-17 (Grade) (Line or Staff Corps, as applicable)
    Continuation Selection Board, Board #XXX, (Board number is a required 
field and may be found on the FY-17 selection board schedule located at 
http://www.public.navy.mil/bupers-
npc/boards/selectionboardsupport/Pages/FY17%20Board%20Schedule.aspx
    5720 Integrity Drive, Millington, TN 38055-6300
To check on receipt of your package, go to
http://www.public.navy.mil/bupers-
npc/boards/activedutyofficer/pages/default.aspx and enter the customer 
service center link (check on your letter to the board) or contact the 
customer service center at (866) 827-5672.  The written communication may 
call attention to the board, any matter concerning the officers record that 
the officer considers important.  Written communication may include, as 
enclosures, correspondence from any individual concerning the eligible 
officer.  Correspondence not originated by the eligible officer, including 
endorsement to the eligible officers letter and letters written on behalf of 
that officer, must contain a written acknowledgement by the eligible officer 
that he or she desires such correspondence be presented to the board. 
Correspondence without such an acknowledgement is considered third party 
correspondence and will be returned without being presented to the board.  
Classified correspondence will not be accepted.

9.  Questions regarding continuation should be directed to Navy Personnel 
Command PERS-801 at (901) 874-4533/DSN 882.  Additional information is also 
available at http://www.public.navy.mil/bupers-
npc/boards/officercontinuation/Pages/default.aspx.

10.  The CSCSELBOARD@NAVY.MIL mailbox account is capable of receiving 
encrypted correspondence IAW DoD policy.  If you are sending your board 
package from a non-NMCI network (BUMED.mil, USMC.mil, etc), please visit 
https://dod411.gds.disa.mil to download the required mailbox certificate.  To 
download the "Cert" (Please note, you MUST be using MS Outlook with a CAC 
reader, including "ActivClient" software and have Internet Explorer or 
Netscape 7), go to https://dod411.gds.disa.mil, type CSCSELBOARD@NAVY.MIL in 
the "E-Mail address field, then click "Search."  Click the "CSC" link under 
"Last Name."  Click on the link "Download Certificate(s) as vCard. Click 
"Software Certificate for CSCSELBOARD@NAVY.MIL." Click the "Open" button for 
the File Download popup.  The certificate will then open.  Click "Save and 
Close".  The certificate is then saved to the profile and can be used to send 
your encrypted e-mail.

11.  This NAVADMIN will be canceled for record purposes on 30 September 2016.

12.  Released by Vice Admiral W. F. Moran, N1.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
