UNCLASSIFIED//
ROUTINE
R 011720Z AUG 19
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
CMC WASHINGTON DC
COMDT COGARD WASHINGTON DC
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC
BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 175/19

MSGID/NAVADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC//N2N6/AUG//

SUBJ/FISCAL YEAR 2019 COPERNICUS AWARD NOMINATION// POC/GOEHRING/CIV/AFCEA 
EDUCATIONAL FOUNDATION/TEL: (703) 631-6147/
EMAIL:  AGOEHRING(AT)AFCEA.ORG//

RMKS/1.  The Copernicus Award was established to recognize individual 
contributions to naval warfare in Command, Control, Communications, 
Computers, and Intelligence (C4I), Information Systems, Cyber Operations, and 
Information Warfare.  The award is sponsored by Armed Forces Communications 
and Electronics Association (AFCEA) International and the United States Naval 
Institute (USNI).

2.  Award criteria and eligibility.  Fiscal year 2019 nominees must have made 
a specific, demonstrable contribution to the advancement of C4I, Information 
Systems, or Cyber Operations.  Contributions can be technical in nature, but 
may also originate from doctrinal, financial, organizational, or other 
dimensions of information systems.  The contribution should involve 
exceptional initiative, leadership, and insight within the nominee area of 
expertise.  All U.S. Navy, U.S. Marine Corps, U.S. Coast Guard, and Civil 
Service personnel are eligible for nomination.  Up to 22 awardees will be 
selected.  Each nominating command is limited to two nominees.  No contractor 
or team (more than one person) nominations will be accepted.  Nominations 
must be unclassified.

3.  Nominations and presentation.  The awardees will be selected from 
nominations received from U.S. Navy, U.S. Marine Corps, and U.S. Coast Guard 
(including Joint/North Atlantic Treaty Organization) commands, afloat and 
ashore.  Nominations must be on letterhead, be submitted by email in PDF 
format, and must not contain any Personally Identifiable Information (PII).  
Nominations for Commanding Officers or Officers-in-Charge must be signed by 
their Immediate Superior in Command.  Flag endorsements and letters of 
recommendation are neither required nor desired.  The nomination template and 
additional nomination package information, as well as the most up-to-date 
point of contact information can be found at 
https://www.milsuite.mil/book/docs/DOC-489512, and award information can be 
found at http://www.afcea.org/site/awards /copernicus.  Nominations must be 
submitted no later than 1 November 2019 to edfoundation(at)afcea.org.  Late 
nominations will not be considered.

4.  AFCEA and USNI will make the final selections and the Deputy Chief of 
Naval Operations for Information Warfare will announce the awardees via 
NAVADMIN.  The annual Copernicus Awards ceremony will be held 2-3 March 2020 
at the AFCEA/USNI WEST 2020 Conference in San Diego, CA at the San Diego 
Convention Center.  If awardees are unable to attend the March ceremony, the 
awards will also be presented 2-4 June 2020 at the AFCEA TechNet Cyber 
Conference in Baltimore, MD at the Baltimore Convention Center.

5.  Released by VADM Matthew J. Kohler, Deputy Chief of Naval Operations for 
Information Warfare, OPNAV N2N6.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//

