UNCLASSIFIED
ROUTINE
R 211435Z OCT 16
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC
BT
UNCLAS
PASS TO OFFICE CODES:
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//

NAVADMIN 237/16

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/OCT//

SUBJ/EXECUTIVE MASTER OF BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION DISTANCE LEARNING DEGREE 
PROGRAM FOR MARCH 2017//

REF/A/MSG/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/061710ZAUG07//
AMPN/REF A IS NAVADMIN 195/07, OFFICER GRADUATE EDUCATION SERVICE 
OBLIGATION.//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN announces application procedures for the March 2017 
distance learning Executive Master of Business Administration (EMBA) program.  
The program will be taught in the fleet concentration areas (Norfolk, 
Washington D.C., and San Diego) and other eligible sites.

2.  The Naval Postgraduate School (NPS) defense-focused EMBA is a 24-month, 
fully-funded, part-time graduate program focused on resource management.  The 
program prepares middle to senior grade active-duty officers, lieutenant 
commander (select) and above, whose career paths do not support in-resident - 
graduate education.

3.  The program begins with a one-week temporary additional duty (TAD) 
resident program at the NPS campus in Monterey, CA.  Official travel orders 
and funding for TAD travel will be provided by the student's parent command.  
If command funding is not available, students may fund their own travel and 
utilize no-cost TAD orders from their command.  During resident week, 
students will take a two-credit hour course in managing teams.  Additionally, 
students will interact with the faculty who will be teaching throughout the 
program and master the skills required to learn via distance learning 
methods.  The NPS program resident week is scheduled for 13-17 February 2017.  
A block of rooms has been reserved at Navy Lodge, Monterey, CA for attendees.  
Transportation by bus will be provided to and from the Navy Lodge for daily 
classes on the NPS campus to minimize TAD costs.

4.  NPS faculty use video teleconferencing (VTC), internet, and other 
distance learning modes to teach the follow-on courses. Students meet in VTC-
capable classrooms once a week during normal duty hours for six to seven 
hours of instruction, taking two classes per quarter for eight quarters.  
Students enter the EMBA program as a cohort and will take all courses 
together as a learning team (minimum five personnel).  VTC instruction will 
begin during the week of 3 April 2017.

5.  Eligibility requirements include an undergraduate degree from a 
regionally accredited four-year college or university, academic profile code 
of 245 (2.6 grade point average or higher on a 4 point scale) and 2 pre-
calculus courses with a grade of B or better.  A commanding officer 
endorsement letter is required to participate in the program.  Department 
head or similar mid-level management experience and strong potential for 
promotion are preferred. Participants must have a projected rotation date no 
earlier than March 2019.  The Graduate Management Admission Test is not 
required.

6.  Graduates will be awarded an EMBA degree from NPS and the Navy 
subspecialty code 3100P, Financial Management - Defense Focus.  As directed 
by reference (a), officers participating in this program must agree to remain 
on active duty following completion of graduate studies for a period of three 
years.  This obligation is discharged concurrently with any other service 
obligation already incurred. This agreement does not obligate the Navy to 
retain the officer on active duty.

7.  Officers interested in the EMBA program can visit the NPS EMBA home page 
for detailed eligibility and application process information.  Deadline for 
the application process is no later than 4 December 2016.  The EMBA program 
homepage can be found at www.nps.edu/emba.

8.  Point of contact is the NPS EMBA program office and they can be reached 
at (831) 656-2562/DSN 756, fax at (831)656-3630/DSN 756, or via e-mail at 
emba(at)nps.edu.  .

9.  This message will remain in effect until superseded or 30 June 2017, 
whichever occurs first.

10.  Released by Vice Admiral R. P. Burke, N1.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
