UNCLASSIFIED//

ATTENTION INVITED TO  

ROUTINE

R 112148Z JUL 13 PSN 144296H26

FM CNO WASHINGTON DC

TO NAVADMIN

INFO ZEN/CNO WASHINGTON DC

BT
UNCLAS
***THIS IS A 2 SECTION MESSAGE COLLATED BY OIX GATEWAY HONOLULU HI*** QQQQ

SUBJ: FAMILYGRAM 03-13-SUMMER 2013
UNCLASSIFIED/
PASS TO ALL OFFICE CODES
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//
TO NAVADMIN
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//
UNCLAS//N01754//
NAVADMIN 178/13

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO/WASHINGTON DC/N1/JUL//

SUBJ/FAMILYGRAM 03-13-SUMMER 2013//

RMKS/1.  This Navadmin announces the following programs and  activities 
available this summer to military families.
    a.  Local family and youth activities.  From outdoor activities  to 
educational opportunities, navy's summer programs are another way of  taking 
care of our families.  Check your local installation newspaper,  Facebook 
page, or contact the morale, welfare, and recreation (MWR) office,  and 
information, tickets, tours (ITT) office for activities in your local  area 
for vacation deals.  There's something for all ages.
    b.  The fourth annual department of defense (DOD) summer reading
 program- "have book-will travel!" is coming to DOD installations world-wide  
this summer.  Managed by Navy's public library service in collaboration  with 
iRead, a division of the Illinois Library Association, this exciting  and 
educational program ensures DOD families have access to high quality 
resources that are consistent from base-to-base.  Each installation  tailors 
its program to local population, including dates of program, events,  and 
reading activities.  Summer reading programs promote reading for all  ages, 
encourage early literacy among children under five, and promote  school 
readiness.  National research from Dominican University found  students who 
participated in summer reading programs scored higher on reading  achievement 
tests at the beginning of the next school year than those who did not 
participate, mitigating the "summer loss" of reading proficiency when  
reading is not a part of everyday activities.  You can find more information  
about the program at:  http://ila.org/dodsumread/, by visiting your local 
installation library, MWR offices, or by contacting Nellie Moffitt  via email 
at nellie.moffitt(at)navy.mil or Nilya Carrato via email at 
nilya.carrato(at)navy.mil, both can be reached at (202)  433-9802/0785.
    c.  Drug education for youth (DEFY).  Local DEFY programs will  soon 
begin recruiting youth participants and adult volunteers to assist with the  
phase i summer leadership program.  DEFY is a year-long, two-phased  
comprehensive life skills and substance abuse prevention program specifically  
designed for 9-12 year old children of military and DOD civilian families.  
Local  programs begin with phase i, the summer leadership program, and 
continue  throughout the school year (phase ii).  Participants learn 
important life skills  such as leadership, team building, substance abuse 
prevention, study skills,  and social/self-management skills.  Local programs 
also need adult  volunteers who act as mentors and role models for 
participants.  For more  information, contact (901) 874-3300 or go to 
www.npc.navy.mil/support/nadap/defy.

2.  Summer safety
    a.  Live to play, play to live summer 2013.  With increased  outdoor 
activity there comes an increased need to focus on safety.  Navy's  summer 
safety campaign, live to play, play to live summer 2013, is a great  resource 
for sailors and their families.  This year's focus is on private  motor 
vehicles (autos/motorcycles), alcohol awareness, water safety, and  sexual 
assault/suicide awareness.  More information is available at:
http://www.public.navy.mil/navsafecen/pages/media/seasonal/index.aspx
.
    b.  Home and family.  Did you know Navy Safety Center also has  safety 
information for your home and family activities?  Check-out the safe  tips on 
topics like boating, biking, cribs, cooking out, fireworks, sports,  swimming 
pools, and much more.  Find safe tips a-z at 
http://www.public.navy.mil/navsafecen/pages/media/safetips.aspx.

3.  Other items of interest
    a.  New spouse on-demand training.  A free online course designed  to 
support new navy spouses who may be geographically isolated and  unable to 
attend the fleet and family support center workshop in person.
 Available 24/7, this curriculum will familiarize new military spouses with 
navy administrative details, customs, language, and resources.  More  
information is available at 
http://learning.zeiders.refineddata.com/course/view.php?id=4502.
    b.  Military OneSource blog brigade.  A place to discover what  military 
spouses are up to around the world, with great family information and  tips, 
written by military spouses.  More information can be found at
 http://blog-Brigade.militaryonesource.mil.

4.  The information above, including website links, is offered as a 
convenience and is for informational purposes only.  Reference to  these 
resources does not constitute an official endorsement or approval by  the 
Department of the Navy (DON) of any product, service, or opinion of  the 
responsible external agency.  DON bears no responsibility for the  accuracy 
or the content of external sites.

5.  Point of contact for this matter is Ms. Betty Talley, at comm
 (901) 874-4299/dsn 882 or via e-mail at betty.talley(at)navy.mil.

6.  Released by Vice Admiral S. R. Van Buskirk, N1.//

BT
#7009
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
