UNCLASSIFIED//

ROUTINE

R 091626Z OCT 18

FM CNO WASHINGTON DC

TO NAVADMIN

INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC

BT
UNCLAS
PASS TO OFFICE CODES:
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N2N6//
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N2N6//

NAVADMIN 249/18

MSGID/NAVADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N2N6/OCT//

SUBJ/NOMINATIONS FOR FISCAL YEAR 2018 OCEANOGRAPHER OF THE NAVY AWARDS//

REF/A/DOC/OPNAV/10OCT14//

AMPN/OPNAVINST 1650.37 NAVAL OCEANOGRAPHY AWARD PROGRAM// POC/DAVID 
ZIEMBA/LCDR/OPNAV N2N6E/-/TEL: (703)614-1847/E-MAIL:  
DAVID.A.ZIEMBA1(AT)NAVY.MIL//

RMKS/1.  The Naval Oceanography Awards program was established to recognize 
outstanding achievement in the field of Naval Oceanography by officers, Chief 
Petty Officers, and Department of the Navy (DON) civilians.  The award is 
sponsored by the Oceanographer of the Navy in accordance with reference (a).

2.  Award criteria and eligibility.  One awardee will be selected for each of 
the following awards:
    a.  Captain Richard C. Steere Award recognizes junior officers afloat or 
ashore for their leadership, performance, special accomplishments, and expert 
application of the meteorology and oceanography sciences.  Navy Active and 
Reserve Component 1800/6800 officers in the paygrades of O1-O3 are eligible.
    b.  The Commander Mary Sears Award recognizes mid-grade officers who 
demonstrate sustained superior performance, outstanding leadership ability, 
personal initiative, cooperation and adaptability, outstanding military 
bearing, and exemplary military and professional conduct.  Navy Active and 
Reserve Component 1800/6800 officers in the paygrade of O4 are eligible.
    c.  The Chief Aerographers Mate John Dungan Jr. Award recognizes Navy 
senior enlisted in the oceanography community afloat or ashore for their 
leadership, performance, special accomplishments, and expertise in 
forecasting and analysis in the applied sciences of meteorology and 
oceanography in support of fleet operations.  Navy Active and Reserve 
Component Chief and Senior Chief Aerographers Mates are eligible.
    d.  The Matthew Henson Award recognizes DON civilian employees for their 
leadership, performance, special accomplishments, and  expert application of 
the meteorology and oceanography sciences in support of naval operations.  
DON civilian employees at or below the grade of GS-13 are eligible.

3.  Nominations.  The period of eligibility is from 1 October 2017 to 30 
September 2018.  Nomination packages should be submitted as
specified per reference (a).  Packages must arrive to the Oceanographer of 
the Navy via   e-mail to Lieutenant Commander David Ziemba at 
david.a.ziemba1(at)navy.mil no later than 16 November 2018.  The 
Oceanographer of the Navy and Commander, Naval Meteorology and Oceanography 
Command will convene a joint board consisting of their respective Technical 
Directors, Senior Enlisted Advisor/Command Master Chief, Executive 
Assistant/Chief of Staff, and others as appropriate who will select awardees 
based upon the above criteria and content of the respective nomination 
packages.  Nominations must be unclassified and submitted on command 
letterhead by scan and e -mail (preferred), or letter mail.  Nomination 
packages must include:
    a.  Name/Rank or Grade;
    b.  Job Title, Pay Plan, and Occupation Code Organization and Location;
    c.  Date of commission/promotion history (officer) or pay entry  base 
date/advancement history (enlisted);
    d.  Active duty assignments/employment (inclusive dates);
    e.  Significant prior awards (personal, service, campaign);
    f.  Education (Year, Degree, School, Major Field of study);
    g.  Command letter of endorsement;
    h.  Significant accomplishments in the past year (bullet format);
    i.  One-page biography (include membership in professional or scientific 
societies, civic organizations, etc.);

4.  Recognition.  The Oceanographer of the Navy will announce the award by 
message, and will recognize the awardee in person or via their commanding 
officer.

5.  Released by VADM Matthew J. Kohler, Deputy Chief of Naval Operations for 
Information Warfare, OPNAV N2N6.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//

