UNCLASSIFIED//

REROUTE DETECTED  

ROUTINE

R 091825Z OCT 14 PSN 986804K35

FM CNO WASHINGTON DC

TO NAVADMIN

BT
UNCLAS

SUBJ/FY-16 NAVY ACTIVE-DUTY AND RESERVE E9, E8, AND E7 SELECTION BOARD 
MEMBERSHIP NOMINATIONS// 

NAVADMIN 235/14

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/OCT//

REF/A/DOC/BUPERS/10SEP14//

AMPN/REF A IS BUPERSINST 1401.5B, SUPPLEMENTAL GUIDANCE FOR U.S.
NAVY SELECTION BOARDS.//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN announces the solicitation of enlisted selection board 
participants for the FY-16 Navy Active-Duty and Reserve Master Chief, Senior 
Chief, and Chief Petty Officer Selection Boards.  The experience gained from 
exposure to the selection board process is critical to a master chief*s 
success as a leader.  Every Master Chief Petty Officer, not otherwise 
restricted from participating in an enlisted selection board, is strongly 
encouraged to volunteer to serve as a member on a FY-16 enlisted selection 
board.

2.  The boards are scheduled to convene as follows:  2 through 13 March 2015 
for Reserve E9/E8 (combined), 30 March through 10 April for active-duty E9, 
20 April through 8 May 2015 for active-duty E8,18 May through 5 June 2015 for 
Reserve E7 and 22 June through 17 July for active-duty E7.

3.  The due dates for member and recorder applications to be received by 
Commander, Navy Personnel Command (CNPC) (PERS-805) are as follows:  5 
December 2014 for Reserve E9/E8 (combined),19 December 2014 for active-duty 
E9, 29 January 2015 for active-duty E8, 20 February 2015 for Reserve E7, and 
27 March 2015 for active-duty E7.

4.  Prior to submitting an application, review reference (a) found
at:  http://www.public.navy.mil/bupers-npc/reference/instructions/
BUPERSInstructions/Documents/BUPERSINST%201401.5B.pdf.  In addition to the 
membership criteria outlined in reference (a) and on the Enlisted Selection 
Board Member/Recorder Application (NAVPERS 1400/2), the following also 
applies to selection board nominees:
     a.  Shall not have a relative (defined in reference (a)) serving on the 
same board in any capacity.
     b.  All Navy relatives (active or reserve) must be listed on the 
application form along with their rank/rate even if not board eligible.
     c.  Shall not have been a member of the same board in the previous year.

5.  Additional information pertaining to selection board membership:
     a.  Frocked master chiefs may participate in the selection board process 
and are strongly encouraged to do so.
     b.  In select circumstances, Navy Personnel Command (NPC) may provide 
permanent change of station (PCS) order modifications if an applicant with 
PCS orders is selected to serve on an enlisted selection board.  Selected 
board members should contact LCDR Matthew Langreck at (901) 874-4162 or via 
e-mail at matthew.langreck(at)navy.mil if this applies.  Do not contact your 
detailer directly as they may be eligible before the board.
     c.  Active-duty and reserve component master chiefs are encouraged to 
apply for any of the above boards.  There are no restrictions preventing 
active-duty members from serving on reserve selection boards or reserve/full 
time support members from serving on active-duty selection boards.
     d.  Senior chief petty officers and chief petty officers (to include 
frocked) may serve as recorders on any of the above boards if not eligible.  
In addition, senior chief petty officers may apply to be a member on either 
the reserve or active-duty E7 boards only.  Petty officers (E6 and below) may 
not serve on the boards in any capacity, no exceptions.

6.  The application form can be accessed at
http://www.public.navy.mil/BUPERS-
NPC/BOARDS/ACTIVEDUTYENLISTED/Pages/GeneralInformation.aspx  or at 
http://www.public.navy.mil/BUPERS-NPC/BOARDS/RESERVEENLISTED/Pages/
GeneralInformation.aspx

7.  The signed application must be endorsed by the member*s commanding 
officer (CO) and forwarded directly to their cognizant force/fleet master 
chief (FORCM/FLTCM).  The FORCM/FLTCM will forward endorsed applications to 
Mr. Donald Marshall via e-mail at donald.p.marshall(at)navy.mil or will 
return the endorsed application to the member so they may send it personally.
In rare circumstances where the applicant does not have or is assigned to a 
joint command without a FORCM/FLTCM, the application should be sent to Mr. 
Marshall by the command*s senior enlisted leader (SEL), provided the SEL is 
not eligible for advancement on the board the applicant is submitting for. If 
you are unsure of your circumstance please contact Mr. Marshall.

8.  Do not forward applications through command administrative support 
personnel, to include those of your CO or FORCM/FLTCM.
This will compromise board membership and invalidate your application.  Forms 
received from individuals other than the applicant or their FORCM/FLTCM, 
except as specified in paragraph 7, will not be considered.

9.  Board membership must be held in the strictest of confidence.
Once you submit an application, CNPC has ordered a policy of non-disclosure.  
Do not discuss your application or your selection, if chosen, to serve on a 
board with anyone other than your CO, reporting senior, command master chief 
(CMC), chief of the boat if applicable, cognizant FORCM/FLTCM, or board 
support personnel at NPC.  It is appropriate for a member who has been 
selected to a board to inform their CMC of their board service.  However, the 
CMC may not disclose their own service on a board to anyone other than the 
CO.  Failure to adhere to policy is a direct violation of the Uniform Code of 
Military Justice and will result in removal from the board and possible 
administrative or disciplinary action by CNPC.

10.  Careful consideration should be given to a nominee*s availability to 
serve as a selection board member.  CO concurrence for the nominee to 
participate in a board is required.  COs, CMCs, and the applicant should 
understand that once selected, the member is under official orders to the 
board and requests for removal from board duties will not be granted except 
in extreme cases as specified in reference (a).

11.  Point of contact is Mr. Donald Marshall at (901) 874-3223/DSN
882 or via e-mail at donald.p.marshall(at)navy.mil.

12.  This NAVADMIN is cancelled for record purposes on
30 September 2015.

13.  Released by Vice Admiral W. F. Moran, N1.//

BT
#2718
NNNN

