UNCLASSIFIED

ROUTINE

R 191603Z DEC 16

FM CNO WASHINGTON DC

TO NAVADMIN

INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC

BT
UNCLAS
PASS TO OFFICE CODES:
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//

NAVADMIN 277/16

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/DEC//

SUBJ/FY-18-1 TEST PILOT SCHOOL SELECTION BOARD//

REF/A/DOC/BUPERS/5OCT10//

AMPN/REF A IS BUPERSINST 1500.62B, TEST PILOT SCHOOLS.//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN announces convening of the U.S. Naval Test Pilot 
School (USNTPS) Selection Board on 15 February 2017.  This board will select 
highly qualified Naval Aviators and Naval Flight Officers (NFO) for USNTPS.  
USNTPS graduates will have a significant and long-lasting influence on 
platforms and systems, and thus directly impacting the future warfighting 
capability of their fleet community.  Request command and fleet community 
assistance to identify candidates with strong operational performance and, 
ideally, strong academic backgrounds in science, technology, engineering, and 
math fields of study.  Specifically, there is increased demand and 
significant opportunity for NFOs with relevant electronic attack fleet 
experience due to current and pending critical developmental test activities.  
The Naval Postgraduate School/USNTPS Cooperative program will not be offered 
during this board or in the near future.

2.  To be eligible for board consideration, a command-endorsed application as 
directed in reference (a) must be received by Navy Personnel Command (NPC) 
Customer Service Center (CSC) no later than
16 January 2017.  Additional documentation will be accepted until
13 February 2017, but must be submitted by the applicant, as a letter to the 
board, as directed in paragraph 3a below.  The command endorsement shall 
address whether the applicant, if selected, will be allowed and available to 
report for initial training as early as May 2017.  The e-mail address(es), 
phone number(s), college transcripts, and post-USNTPS test squadron 
assignment preferences, of the Service Member must be included with the 
application.
Contact information of the commanding officer should be included to expedite 
notification if selected.

3.  Application package submissions
    a.  The preferred method of application submission is electronic.  E-mail 
encrypted PDF submissions to cscselboard(at)navy.mil, 
filisa.murphy(at)navy.mil and michael.p.kline(at)navy.mil.  If unable to send 
encrypted, please contact filisa.murphy(at)navy.mil for assistance.
    b.  If unable to send electronically, applications may be sent via U.S. 
Postal Service to the following address:
    Navy Personnel Command
    FY-18-1 Test Pilot School Selection Board (Board #220)
    Customer Service Center (PERS-1)
    5720 Integrity Drive
    Millington, TN 38055
    c.  Applications sent via Federal Express, United Parcel Service, or DHL 
Express should use the following address:
    Navy Personnel Command
    FY-18-1 Test Pilot School Selection Board (Board #220)
    Customer Service Center (PERS-1)
    5640 Ticonderoga Loop, Bldg 768, RM E302
    Millington, TN 38055

4.  Applicants should confirm receipt of their application package and all 
correspondence by selecting the customer service link at
http://www.public.navy.mil/bupers-
npc/organization/npc/csc/Pages/SelectionBoardPackages.aspx or by calling the 
NPC CSC at 866-U-ASK-NPC/DSN 882-5672.

5.  Eligibility
    a.  Designated Naval Aviators and NFOs through the grade of lieutenant 
commander who are qualified for flight duties and have not been terminated 
from flying status are eligible for selection.
    b.  The preferred unrestricted line (URL, 13x0) aviators are junior 
officers (O-2 or O-3) with detailer-forecasted career timing to complete the 
selected USNSTPS program and a 36 month follow-on test tour prior to their 
expected department head tour.  If there are not enough qualified junior 
officers to meet requirements, lieutenant commanders with exceptional records 
may be selected, provided they can meet applicable career milestones.
    c.  Aerospace engineering duty officer (1510) aviators through the grade 
of lieutenant commander may be selected if they are able to serve a 36 month 
follow-on test tour and still meet career milestones.
    d.  Applicants determined to have insufficient career timing to meet a 
minimum test tour of 24 months may have their application removed from 
consideration.
    e.  Applicants may only apply for the fixed wing, rotary wing, or 
airborne systems curriculums as test pilots and test NFOs.  The flight test 
engineer syllabus is for AIR 5.1 Civilian Personnel and not available for 
naval officers.

6.  Applicants should periodically check for updates and additional 
information at the USNTPS Board website at
http://www.public.navy.mil/bupers-
npc/boards/administrative/testpilot/Pages/default.aspx

7.  Point of contacts are CDR Michael Kline, PERS-434B, via e-mail at 
michael.p.kline(at)navy.mil or Mrs. Shirley Murphy, PERS-434B1, via e-mail at 
filisa.murphy(at)navy.mil.

8.  This message will remain in effect until superseded or cancelled.

9.  Released by Vice Admiral R. P. Burke, N1.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
