UNCLASSIFIED//

ROUTINE

R 111844Z SEP 15

FM CNO WASHINGTON DC

TO NAVADMIN

INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC

BT
UNCLAS
NAVADMIN 215/15

SUBJ/NAVY CYBERSECURITY INITIAL OPERATIONAL CAPABILITY (IOC) MESSAGE//

REF/A/LTR/IMPLEMENTATION PLANNING MEMO FOR NAVY CYBERSECURITY AND CYBERSAFE 
PROGRAMS/25JUL2014//

AMPN/Reference (a) is the 25 July 2014 implementation planning memo for Navy 
Cybersecurity and CYBERSAFE programs which directed Task Force Cyber 
Awakening (TFCA) to develop a CYBERSAFE program establishment plan.//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN announces the completion of Task Force Cyber Awakening 
(TFCA) and the establishment of Navy Cybersecurity, to be executed by a new 
division within Deputy Chief of Naval Operations for Information Dominance 
(OPNAV N2/N6).  A Chief of Naval Operations Executive Group (CEG) declared 
Navy Cybersecurity initial operational capability (IOC) on 25 August 2015.  
Navy Cybersecurity will operate under a DRAFT Navy Cybersecurity Instruction, 
distributed via separate correspondence, until staffing of the final 
instruction is complete.

2.  Background.  The Chief of Naval Operations (CNO) directed establishment 
of TFCA in response to compromises within Navy networks, low fleet 
cybersecurity inspection scores, and identification of warfighting platform 
cyber vulnerabilities.  Reference (a) tasked TFCA to evaluate Navy 
cybersecurity governance to include a broad scope of systems and processes in 
order to provide reasonable assurance of survivability of critical platform 
components necessary for mission success such as Navy networks and control 
systems.  At the 25 August 2015 CEG, CNO approved the transition of Navys 
TFCA to a newly established enduring cybersecurity organization under OPNAV 
N2/N6, with all necessary authorities afforded the original task force 
delegated from CNO and Assistant Secretary of the Navy (Research, Development 
and Acquisition).  This signaled the completion of TFCAs one-year effort.

3.  Navy Cybersecurity 100-Day Transition Plan.  Navy Cybersecurity is 
executing a 100-Day Transition Plan that includes the development of charters 
for associated senior level governing bodies, submission of documents to 
support short-and long-range cybersecurity requirements definition and 
funding, drafting of cybersecurity components of Navy cyber strategy and 
policy documents, and development of a Navy-wide branding campaign to drive 
cultural change.

4.  Oversight.  The Navy Cybersecurity Executive Committee will provide 
oversight and conduct progress reviews of Navy Cybersecurity.

5.  Released by VADM Ted N. Branch, OPNAV N2/N6.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//

