UNCLASSIFIED//

ROUTINE

R 271839Z JUN 19

FM CNO WASHINGTON DC

TO NAVADMIN

INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC

BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 143/19

PASS TO OFFICE CODES:
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/JUN//

SUBJ/FY-21 NAVY SELECTED RESERVE LIMITED DUTY OFFICER AND CHIEF WARRANT 
OFFICER IN-SERVICE PROCUREMENT PROGRAM BOARD//

REF/A/DOC/OPNAV/14DEC09//

REF/B/DOC/OPNAV/12APR16//

REF/C/MSG/CNO WASHINGTON DC/131544ZDEC07//

NARR/REF A IS OPNAVINST 1420.1B, ENLISTED TO OFFICER COMMISSIONING PROGRAMS 
APPLICATION ADMINISTRATIVE MANUAL.  REF B IS OPNAVINST 1120.12A, APPOINTMENT 
OF LIMITED DUTY OFFICERS AND CHIEF WARRANT OFFICERS IN THE NAVY RESERVE.  REF 
C IS NAVADMIN 336/07, ADMINISTRATION OF THE NAVY-WIDE ADVANCEMENT EXAM FOR 
SAILORS IN IRAQ, AFGHANISTAN, AND THE HORN OF AFRICA.//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN announces the solicitation of applications from highly 
qualified and motivated E-6 through E-9 Reserve Sailors for the Fiscal Year 
(FY) 2021 Navy Selected Reserve Limited Duty Officer (LDO) and Chief Warrant 
Officer (CWO) programs.  Where conflicts with reference (a) exist, this 
NAVADMIN takes precedence.

2.  The FY-21 Navy Selected Reserve LDO and CWO In-Service Procurement Board 
(ISPB) will consider candidates for the following officer designators: 623X, 
626X, 628X, 629X, 633X, 641X, 649X, 653X, 711X, 712X, 713X, 715X, 716X, 717X, 
781X, 782X and 783X.  Eligible Sailors are encouraged to apply for the 
designators for which they are most qualified, regardless of current rating.  
Refer to references (a) and (b) for eligibility criteria.

3.  LDOs and CWOs bring a variety of experience and unique perspectives into 
the wardroom from their enlisted service.  LDO and CWO career paths provide 
additional leadership opportunities and enhance a Sailors ability to 
contribute to the Navy Reserve.  These programs deliver to the officer corps 
seasoned professionals with proven leadership abilities at an economical 
cost.  LDOs provide broad technical management and leadership skills and CWOs 
provide specific technical expertise and leadership skills in support of the 
unrestricted line, restricted line and staff corps communities.
LDOs and CWOs serve in a variety of leadership billets within their technical 
fields, ranging from division officers to commanding officers (CO).

4.  Updated policy guidance to reference (a).
    a.  Time-in-service (TIS) for the FY-21 Navy Selected Reserve LDO and CWO 
ISPB must be computed to 1 October 2020.  In line with references (a) and 
(b), TIS is synonymous with years of qualifying service toward a non-regular 
(Reserve) retirement.
    b.  TIS eligibility is 8 to 14 years for LDO and 14 to 20 years for CWO.  
However, TIS waivers will be considered and adjudicated on a case-by-case 
basis by the Head Reserve Officer Community Manager
(OCM) (BUPERS-351).  Potential applicants outside of the TIS eligibility 
window are encouraged to contact the Reserve LDO/CWO OCM in paragraph 14 of 
this NAVADMIN to discuss TIS waiver opportunities.
    c.  In line with reference (b), all applicants must include a statement 
in the personal statement section (paragraph 2) of the application, agreeing 
to further service, as follows:  *I, [name], if selected for permanent 
appointment under the Navy Reserve LDO/CWO program, agree to accept such 
appointment and further agree to remain in the Ready Reserve for a period of 
3 years after I accept such appointment.*
    d.  CO/officer-in-charge (OIC) endorsement, must contain the following 
statement:  *Applicant meets all requirements outlined in OPNAVINST 1420.1B, 
NAVADMIN 281/12, NAVADMIN XXX/19 (use the NAVADMIN # for this message), and 
the physical fitness standards of OPNAVINST 6110.1J.*  It is preferred that 
COs indicate the ranking among candidates from their command, even if one of 
one. The endorsement should also clearly state the command and COs name and 
rank.

5.  First class petty officers serving in Iraq, Afghanistan and the Horn of 
Africa that are determined chief petty officer board eligible in line with 
reference (c) are also eligible for LDO if all other eligibility requirements 
are met.

6.  Interview appraisal boards shall be constructed and approved by the 
CO/OIC and consist of a minimum of three Reserve naval officers (LDOs or 
CWOs, if available).  Every effort shall be made to ensure at least one board 
member is from the designator for which the applicant is applying (including 
but not limited to teleconference, video teleconference, defense connect 
online, etc.).  All applicants applying to the 715X or 717X designators must 
have the CO of Sea, Air and Land Team 17 or 18 as an interview appraisal 
board member if the applicant is assigned outside of the Naval Special 
Warfare clemency.  Minimum grade requirements for board members are 
lieutenant junior grade or CWO2 with two years time-in-grade.  Three 
interview appraisals must be submitted for each applicant.  The potential 
block on interview appraisals must be marked for LDO and CWO candidates.  
Only the current version of the interviewer appraisal sheet will be accepted.  
Follow the instructions in paragraph 13 to download the most current 
interviewer appraisal sheet.

7.  Applicants who have or are currently serving in an individual 
augmentation manpower management, global support assignment (GSA), or 
overseas contingency operations support assignment (OCO) are to include these 
tours in the assignment history section of the application.  CO/OIC 
recommendation must include validation of any listed IA/GSA/OCO assignment.

8.  Applicants currently serving on IA/GSA may have their application 
endorsed by their field commander.  All applications endorsed by field 
commanders must have their parent command concurrence.  Follow the 
instructions in paragraph 13 to download a sample addendum letter.

9.  Applicants must ensure copies of the most recent periodic evaluation are 
included in the application or later addendum for board review and 
continuity.  First class petty officers must submit their 15 November 2019 
evaluation via addendum if it is not already reflected in their Official 
Military Personnel File.

10.  Applicants must maintain eligibility throughout the selection and 
commissioning process.  Applicants that are deemed ineligible after the 
submission of applications must be declared ineligible by their current CO, 
field commander (if on an IA) or parent command CO.  Follow the instructions 
in paragraph 13 to download a sample letter of abeyance or removal of 
recommendation memo.

11.  Each applicant and command must ensure that applications are complete 
and accurate.  Incomplete applications could result in non- selection.  Refer 
to reference (a), (chapters 2 and 7), for security clearance information, 
program overview, eligibility criteria and application format.

12.  The FY-21 Navy Selected Reserve LDO and CWO ISPB will convene at a date 
to be determined in January 2020.  For the most current board dates, visit 
MyNavy Portal (MNP) at
https://www.mnp.navy.mil/group/advancement-and-promotion/reserve-
officer and select the FY-21 board schedule when available.  E- mailed 
applications must be received by the MyNavy Career Center
(MNCC) NLT 1 October 2019.  Submit applications via e-mail to 
cscselboard(at)navy.mil.  E-mails must be sent encrypted using a military e-
mail account to protect personally identifiable information.  Applicants who 
are unable to submit applications as outlined above due to current 
operational location may physically mail the application.
    a.  Mailed applications must be postmarked NLT 1 October 2019.
    b.  Evaluations and awards must be received NLT 1 January 2020.
    c.  Routine addendums to applications, excluding evaluations and awards, 
must be received NLT 1 December 2019.  Applications must be signed by the CO 
of the applicant or *Acting*.  Addendums can be signed *By direction* if the 
CO or OIC is unavailable.
    d.  Communication to the board must originate from the individual Service 
Member.  Information received that is not under the applicants cover letter 
(e.g., third party correspondence) and endorsed by the command, or not 
received by MNCC by the established
deadline(s) will not be presented to the board.  The time and date (central 
standard time) received in the MNCC inbox via e-mail is the time and date 
used for deadline verification.  Although a late submission may be accepted 
by MNCC, it will not be presented to the board.  All applications or 
addendums must have the full social security number of the Service Member on 
each page.  Electronic and hard copy addendums must include a command 
endorsement.  The FY-21 Navy Selected Reserve LDO and CWO ISPB selection 
board number is 21315.  Applicants who are unable to e-mail applications may 
mail them to
        (1) Standard (U.S. Postal Service) mail:
            Navy Personnel Command Selection
            Board Support Division
            President FY 21 Navy Selected Reserve Enlisted to Limited
            Duty Officer and Chief Warrant Officer In service
            Procurement Selection Board #21315
            PERS-35 Selection Board Support Division
            Bldg 769 Rm 198
            5720 Integrity Drive
            Millington TN 38055 3500
        (2) Overnight/Express (FEDEX, UPS, etc.) mail:
            Navy Personnel Selection
            Board Support Division
            President FY-21 Navy Selected Reserve Enlisted to Limited
            Duty Officer and Chief Warrant Officer In service
            Procurement Selection Board #21315
            5640 Ticonderoga Loop Bldg 768 RM E302
            Millington TN 38055

13.  For the most current application process visit the *Limited Duty Officer 
and Chief Warrant Officer ISPB* tab via MNP at
https://www.mnp.navy.mil/group/career-planning/commissioning-
programs.  Click on the link for the *Reserve Component LDO/CWO ISPB*.  This 
site contains links to the current application form, interview appraisal 
sheets, sample addendum letter, sample letter of abeyance or removal of 
recommendation memo, application help and a review checklist for commands to 
print and include in the application folder.

14.  Points of contact.
     a.  For application and eligibility questions, contact PSC Nathaniel 
Ndikum, Affiliation and Redesignation Branch at (901) 874- 3209/DSN 882 or 
via e-mail at nathaniel.ndikum(at)navy.mil.
     b.  General LDO/CWO career path and policy, contact LCDR Chris Webster, 
Reserve LDO/CWO OCM, at (901) 874-3291/DSN 882, or via e-mail at 
chris.m.webster(at)navy.mil.

15.  This NAVADMIN will remain in effect until superseded or
30 September 2020, whichever comes first.

16.  Released by Vice Admiral John B. Nowell, Jr, N1.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//

