UNCLASSIFIED

ROUTINE

R 122208Z FEB 18

FM CNO WASHINGTON DC

TO NAVADMIN

INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC
SECNAV WASHINGTON DC
CMC WASHINGTON DC

BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 028/18

PASS TO OFFICE CODES:
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//DNS//

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N00/FEB//

SUBJ/2018 ACTIVE DUTY FUND DRIVE IN SUPPORT OF THE NAVY-MARINE CORPS RELIEF 
SOCIETY (CORRECTED COPY)//

REF/A/DOC/SECNAVINST 5340.7/08FEB1999//

REF/B/DOC/DOD WASHINGTON DC/17NOV2011//

REF/C/DOC/FUNDRAISING ACTIVITIES/1JAN2011//

AMPN/REF A IS SECNAVINST 5340.7, ACTIVE DUTY FUND DRIVE IN SUPPORT OF THE 
NAVY-MARINE CORPS RELIEF SOCIETY.  REF B IS DOD 5500.07-R, JOINT ETHICS 
REGULATION.  REF C IS STANDARDS OF ETHICAL CONDUCT FOR EMPLOYEES OF THE 
EXECUTIVE BRANCH, FUNDRAISING ACTIVITIES (5 C.F.R.
2635.808)//

RMKS/1.  Per reference (a), all U.S. Navy commands and activities with Navy 
and Marine Corps personnel will conduct an active duty fund drive in support 
of the Navy-Marine Corps Relief Society (NMCRS).  This is your opportunity to 
provide much needed funds for the direct benefit and support of our shipmates 
and fellow Marines.

2.  NMCRS does not receive government funding and depends upon the support of 
active duty and retired Sailors and Marines to help those in need at home and 
around the globe.  Your contributions support interest-free loans and grants 
for shipmates facing financial challenges, including those who have been 
displaced by natural disasters and those who are dealing with family 
emergencies.  In 2017, NMCRS used in excess of $1M of your donations to 
support those impacted by Hurricanes HARVEY, IRMA, and MARIA and their 
devastating effects across the southeast.  Following the aftermath of the USS 
FITZGERALD and USS JOHN S. MCCAIN collisions, NMCRS provided uniforms and 
other items from their thrift stores to the affected crews.  Often the 
financial assistance provided by NMCRS is the lifeline that makes the 
difference for Navy and Marine families and keeps our Sailors and Marines 
focused on the mission when an unforeseen financial crisis exceeds their 
ability to make ends meet.

3.  In 2017, nearly 56,000 Sailors and Marines received more than $45 million 
in financial assistance from NMCRS.  Today, our Navy and Marine families are 
better prepared to address the financial responsibility of marriage, the 
arrival of new family members, and car and home ownership because of the 
budget counseling and financial education provided by NMCRS volunteers.

4.  For over a century, our society has kept faith with Sailors and Marines.  
The annual March fund drive is your opportunity to help your brothers and 
sisters in arms.  The campaign theme, "by our own
- for our own" embodies our shared commitment to take care of our shipmates 
and fellow Marines.  I am grateful for those who have given generously in the 
past, and confident that, working together, we can achieve even more in 2018.

5.  As addressed in further detail below, Sailors and Marines are authorized 
to endorse, support, and participate in membership drives and fundraising 
events as long as commands and organizations uphold the Department of the 
Navy's policy of truly voluntary giving during the NMCRS fundraising 
campaign.
    a.  Commands and organizations are reminded to review the regulations 
governing fundraising for NMCRS to properly determine which activities are 
permissible during the fund drive.  Per references (b) and (c), authorized 
NMCRS fundraising activities include, but are not limited to command-
sponsored raffles, lotteries, carnival-type games of chance, bake sales, car 
washes, gently used baby clothing sales, or bowling tournaments.  Fundraising 
events must be conducted on Department of Defense owned or leased property; 
otherwise the event loses its "by our own - for our own" designation and 
cannot be command-endorsed.  Commands and organizations are also strongly 
encouraged to communicate the benefits of NMCRS and its programs through 
achieving 100 percent meaningful contact through speeches, meetings, and 
videos.  Limited appropriated fund support is permissible for kick-off 
events, award ceremonies, and other non-solicitation events to build support.
    b.  References (a) through (c) prohibit any coercive activities counter 
to the policy of truly voluntary giving, such as setting unit-level dollar 
goals or participation goals.  Any actions that do not allow, or create the 
appearance that Service Members do not have, a free choice to give or not to 
give; or any actions that do not allow, or create the appearance, that 
Service Members do not have, a free choice to publicize their gifts or keep 
them confidential are also prohibited.  The following fundraising activities 
are also
prohibited:  selling civilian clothes privileges or special liberty, raffling 
government parking spaces, sponsoring casino-like games of chance, soliciting 
civilian or contractor personnel, or soliciting outside of the federal 
workplace.
    c.  Unit coordinators for the NMCRS fund drive should consult their 
ethics counselor for further guidance with regard to specific questions.

6.  The roadmap to success is assigning motivated fund drive coordinators and 
key people to ensure 100 percent of our Sailors and Marines are afforded the 
opportunity to learn about the NMCRS mission and the critically important 
programs and services they provide to our Sailors, Marines, and their 
families.  Our leaders, both Officer and Enlisted, are the best in the world, 
and I am confident that with their active support and engagement, NMCRS will 
remain positioned to continue the important work of helping our Sailors, 
Marines, and their families.  I encourage all who are able to consider making 
a contribution through payroll allotment, online credit card, or cash to help 
our brothers and sisters in need - we need to take full advantage of this 
annual opportunity to help our shipmates and fellow Marines through the 2018 
ADFD campaign.

7.  Released by Vice Admiral K. M. Donegan, Director, Navy Staff.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
