UNCLASSIFIED//
ROUTINE
R 211350Z OCT 15
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC
BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 243/15

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/OCT//

SUBJ/FLIGHT HOUR VERIFICATION REQUIREMENT FOR CONDITIONAL AVIATION CAREER 
INCENTIVE PAY AND HAZARDOUS DUTY INCENTIVE PAY FOR FLYING//

REF/A/DOC/OPNAV/6AUG10//
REF/B/DOC/DOD/MAY15//
NARR/REF A IS OPNAVINST 7220.18, AVIATION CAREER INCENTIVE PAY.
REF B IS DOD 7000.14-R, DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT REGULATION 
(DODFMR), VOL. 7A, CHAPTER 22, AVIATION INCENTIVE PAYS.//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN announces the FY-15 flight hour verification process 
for conditional Aviation Career Incentive Pay (ACIP) and Hazardous Duty 
Incentive Pay for Flying (HDIP-F).  Per reference (a), all recipients of 
conditional ACIP or HDIP-F are required to track flight hours per month and 
report them to Navy Personnel Command (NPC) Aviation Officer Community 
Manager (PERS-435). Commanding officers and other reporting seniors are 
responsible for verifying the accuracy and completeness of flight hour 
verification letters for officers under their charge, and reporting such by 
endorsing verification letters on command letterhead.  Templates for the 
reporting senior endorsement, as well as an example of the verification 
letter, can be found on the Navy Personnel Command website at 
www.public.navy.mil/bupers-npc/officer/Detailing/aviation/OCM/Pages/ACIP.aspx

2.  A conditional ACIP may be paid to those aeronautically designated 
officers in the following categories:
    a.  Aeromedical officers.
    b.  Aviation officers who would otherwise be eligible for continuous ACIP 
but have not met the months of operational flying requirements at the 12-year 
or 18-year gate.
    c.  Aviation officers, O-6 and below, who have completed the continuous 
ACIP program after 22 years (after passing the 18-year low gate) or 25 years 
(after passing the 18-year high gate).

3.  In order to be eligible for conditional ACIP, an officer must be under 
orders to duty in a flying status involving operational or training flights 
(DIFOPS), must occupy a billet designated XXX1 or XXX2 (a DIFOPS billet), and 
must fly the minimum hours prescribed in reference (b).

4.  HDIP-F may be paid to non-aeronautically designated officers and 
aeronautically designated Flag officers required by competent orders to 
participate in regular and frequent aerial flights as crew or non-
crewmembers.  HDIP-F eligibility requires a non-aeronautically designated 
officer to be under orders to duty involving flying as a technical observer.  
An aeronautically designated Flag officer must be under DIFOPS orders to 
maintain HDIP-F eligibility.  All must fly the minimum hours prescribed in 
reference (b).  Officers entitled to ACIP are not entitled to HDIP-F.

5.  Any officer who received any conditional ACIP or HDIP-F payment during 
FY-15 is required to provide total flight hours, by month, from 1 October 
2014 through 30 September 2015 to PERS-435 no later than 31 December 2015.  
Required format for flight hour submissions and commanding officer 
endorsement letters are provided in the templates located on the NPC website 
at www.public.navy.mil/bupers-
npc/officer/Detailing/aviation/OCM/Pages/ACIP.aspx.  If a member did not 
complete the minimum flight hour requirements as established in reference 
(b), unearned ACIP/HDIP-F will be recouped.  Underpayments will also be 
corrected.  If no flight hours are submitted by 31 December 2015, the 
officers entitlement to ACIP or HDIP-F will stop and he or she will forfeit 
the entire FY-15 entitlement to conditional ACIP or HDIP-F.  The repayment 
process of the ACIP received will be initiated as applicable.  It is the 
responsibility of each individual recipient of conditional ACIP/HDIP-F to 
ensure that the flight hour verification letter and endorsement are completed 
per reference (a), to deliver them on time by mail/e-mail/fax to PERS-435, 
and to verify that they have been received by PERS-435 (see e-mail contacts 
below).

6.  Members shall send original flight hour submissions and command 
endorsements by mail to:
    Commander, Navy Personnel Command
    PERS-435
    5720 Integrity Drive
    Millington, TN 38055-4300
 
Submission of backup copies by e-mail is strongly encouraged to ensure 
receipt by PERS-435, but hardcopy of the original documents must be submitted 
to the address above.  E-mail submissions should be sent to Mr. Paul Boundy 
at paul.boundy(at)navy.mil.  If e-mail is not possible, please fax 
submissions to (901) 874-2721/2756, attention PERS-435.

7.  Once flight hours are received, verification of hours flown and monthly 
entitlement(s) earned will be calculated by PERS-435. Overpayment and 
underpayment cases will be forwarded to Defense Financing and Accounting 
Service for appropriate corrective action. Negotiation of repayment plans for 
recoupment may be discussed directly with the members servicing personnel 
support detachment. Verification of flight hours in FY-14 and earlier will 
not be accepted.

8.  Point of contact for ACIP and HDIP-F policy is CDR Gregory Jonic (PERS-
435), at (901) 874-3484/DSN 882 or via e-mail at gregory.jonic(at)navy.mil.

9.  This NAVADMIN will remain in effect until superseded or canceled, 
whichever comes first.

10.  Released by Vice Admiral W. F. Moran, N1.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
