UNCLASSIFIED//

ROUTINE

R 161240Z JUN 15

FM CNO WASHINGTON DC

TO NAVADMIN

INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC

BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 139/15

SUBJ/CONVENING OF THE FY-16 FULL TIME SUPPORT CAPTAIN SELECTIVE RETENTION 
BOARD 

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/JUN//

REF/A/DOC/SECNAV/15DEC05//
AMPF/REF A IS SECNAVINST 1920.6C, ADMINISTRATIVE SEPARATION OF OFFICERS.

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN announces the convening of the FY-16 Full Time Support 
(FTS) Captain Selective Retention (SELRET) Board.

2.  This SELRET Board is designed to bring FTS inventory in line with 
authorized end strength, allow for reasonable promotion opportunity, and 
permit sufficient junior officer accessions to meet FTS officer operational 
requirements.  FTS officers subject to involuntary release from active duty 
as a result of these boards will be retained on active duty, if necessary, to 
obtain eligibility for retirement with pay at 20 years active service.

3.  The FTS Captain SELRET Board will convene on 21 September 2015, to 
consider FTS captains in all competitive categories for retention.  This 
board will consider first gate FTS captains who were promoted during FY-14, 
and for second gate FTS captains who were promoted during FY-11.  Per 
reference (a), first gate FTS captains not selected for retention will retire 
or be released from active duty no later than (NLT) the first day of the 
month in which they achieve three years time in grade.  Second gate FTS 
captains not selected for retention will retire or be released from active 
duty NLT 1 September 2016.

4.  Amplifying information will be posted on the reserve personnel management 
and FTS community manager websites.  The authorized number of selections for 
retention will be posted as part of the board convening order on the board 
convening date.  The FTS officer community manager web page is:  
http://www.npc.navy.mil/bupers-
npc/officer/communitymanagers/reserve/fts/Pages/FTSCAPTSELRET.aspx.

5.  Guidance on letters to selection boards can be found at
http://www.npc.navy.mil/bupers-
npc/boards/generalboardinfo/Pages/default.aspx.

6.  Point of contact is CDR Isaac C. Armstrong, BUPERS 318C, at
(901) 874-4346/DSN 882 or via e-mail at isaac.armstrong(at)navy.mil.

7.  This message will remain in effect until superseded or canceled, 
whichever comes first.

8.  Released by Vice Admiral W. F. Moran, N1.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
