RTTUZYUW RUEWMCS0000 1501833-UUUU--RUCRNAD.
ZNR UUUUU
R 301833Z MAY 13
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//
TO NAVADMIN
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//
BT
UNCLAS//N01420//

NAVADMIN 148/13

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/MAY//

SUBJ/FY-14 SPECIALTY CAREER PATH SELECTION BOARD//

REF/A/DOC/OPNAV/4JUN12//
AMPN/REF A IS OPNAVINST 1412.14, COMMAND QUALIFICATION PROGRAM.//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN announces convening of the FY-14 Specialty 
Career Path (SCP) selection board from 22-26 July 2013.  The SCP 
program, originally established within the Surface Warfare Community 
in 2005, was expanded to include other unrestricted line (URL) 
officers in 2010.  The SCP program is designed to develop and 
utilize selected officers within the 10 distinct specialty career 
paths.  The SCP program has proven to be a successful initiative and 
has provided the Navy with a cadre of officers with critical skills 
in key Navy mission areas.

2.  The SCP program provides alternatives to the traditional command 
at sea career path and supports the demand for URL control grade 
expertise in growing and expanding mission areas.  The following SCP 
options are open to qualified candidates:
    - Operations analysis
    - Financial management
    - Naval operational planner
    - Antiterrorism/Force Protection
    - Shore installation management
    - Antisubmarine warfare
    - Mine warfare
    - Missile defense
    - Strategic sealift
    - Education and training management

3.  Benefits and opportunities of selection include designated SCP 
billets within a specialty area, specialty training and experience, 
career milestone billets within a specialty area, and potential to 
screen for CO/XO equivalent tours.

4.  Officers desiring to enter one of the SCPs may do so upon 
application and selection.  This administrative board, chaired by a 
flag officer, will select officers best qualified to serve the needs 
of the Navy in each of the SCPs.  Selected individuals will be given 
priority for assignments to billets that develop experience in their 
specialty during normal sea/shore rotations in their original URL 
community.  Selected officers will retain their original designator 
and will receive an additional qualification designator (AQD) that 
indicates their area of specialization.  Career paths are available 
in each of the 10 SCPs with jobs increasing in complexity and 
responsibility.  Officers will gain experience and develop 
management and leadership skills that will best serve the Navy while 
providing enhanced opportunity for successful career transition upon 
retirement.  Stakeholder points of contact for each SCP area and SCP 
billets can be viewed at the following NPC web site, http:  
//www.public.Navy.mil/bupers-
npc/officer/detailing/surfacewarfare/pages/specialtycareerpath.aspx.  
Contact your detailer for additional information.

5.  Eligibility for participation is determined by designator and is 
as follows:
    a.  1110.  After completion of first department head (DH) tour 
or after completing 18 months of a single, longer DH tour.  Selected 
officers are eligible for SCP detailing upon satisfactory completion 
of DH tour requirements.  (SCP program will not impact SWO bonus.)
    b.  1120.  When all screening opportunities for executive 
officer have expired. 
    c.  1130/1140.  Not eligible for the FY14 SCP selection board.
    d.  1310/1320.  Upon completion of a DH tour, failure to select 
for a DH tour for the second time, or upon opting out of DH 
selection if applicable.

6.  Eligible officers may apply for up to two specialty career 
paths.  Eligible officers are URL officers not currently being 
processed for administrative separation, subjects of pending 
detachment for cause requests, or have been detached for cause.  
Full Time Support officers are ineligible for this program.  An 
officer who has a request for resignation pending, or has a 
resignation already approved by the Secretary of the Navy, must 
first submit a resignation withdrawal request.  An application for 
this program will not be processed until the request for withdrawal 
of resignation has been approved.
    a.  Applications must be received NLT 21 June 2013 via encrypted 
e-mail to your detailer (preferred) or via mail to:
        President Specialty Career Path (SCP) Selection Board
        Navy Personnel Command (PERS-41)
        5720 Integrity Drive
        Millington, TN 38055
    b.  Sample application format is provided at:  
http://www.public.navy.mil/bupers-
npc/officer/detailing/surfacewarfare/spc/pages/default.aspx.
    c.  All applications must include command endorsement.  
    d.  Applicants are encouraged to discuss this program with their 
detailer and mentors before submitting a request.
    e.  All applications require respective detailer impact 
statement.
    f.  Applicants are encouraged to review special incentive pay 
directives applicable to their community.

7.  The FY-14 SCP board will also select the appropriate number of 
SCP officers for CO and XO equivalent billets within each mission 
area.  Per ref (a), in order to be eligible for SCP-CO screening, 
officers must meet all requirements of their parent community 
command qualification instruction.  All previously non-XO screened 
LCDR/LCDR (sel) SCP officers will be considered for SCP-XO 
selection.  All previously non-CO screened CDR/CDR (sel) SCP 
officers, who have completed the command qualification requirements, 
will be considered for SCP-CO selection.  NPC will track officers 
who have completed the command qualification.  

8.  Please contact your community detailer for further information 
on the SCP program and the SCP selection board.

9.  Released by Vice Admiral S. R. Van Buskirk, N1.//
BT
#0000
NNNN

