UNCLASSIFIED/

ROUTINE

R 081339Z APR 15

FM CNO WASHINGTON DC

TO NAVADMIN

BT
UNCLAS
NAVADMIN 082/15

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGOTN DC/N1/APR//

SUBJ/BATTLE OF MIDWAY COMMEMORATION PLANNING ORDER//

REF/A/DOC/CNO/21DEC2012OPNAVINST 5726.8A//

AMPN/REF A IS THE OPNAVINST 5726.8A OUTREACH: AMERICA*S NAVY//

RMKS/1.  4 JUNE 2015 will mark the 73rd anniversary of the Navy's and the 
Nation*s most historically significant naval victory.  The Battle of Midway 
(BOM) occurred 3-7 June 1942 and changed the tide of war in the Pacific and 
the course of world history.  This order provides initial guidance and tasks 
for the global execution and planning of this important commemoration.

2.  In support of reference (a), execute a commemorative event commensurate 
with the importance of the BOM for our Navy and Nation.

3.  Commander's Intent:
    a.  Purpose:  Serve as a celebration of our Navy*s greatest victory.  
Specifically, the commemoration will:
        (1) Focus on engaging the American public on why today*s Navy is 
critical to their day to day lives.
        (2) Utilize all Navy outreach assets to maximum extent
        possible.
        (3) Be guided by, and supportive of, the Navy*s strategic messaging.
    b.  Method:  Command Centered execution of a coordinated Navy
    -wide
BOM commemoration.
    c.  End State:  The BOM celebration becomes an institutionalized 
community outreach and a Navy pride event celebrated by the fleet around the 
world.

4.  Tasks:
    a.  Director, Navy Staff (DNS) will oversee planning and program 
development for the annual BOM commemoration.
    b.  Naval History and Heritage Command (NHHC):
        (1) Coordinate and support the execution of Midway
        commemoration
events to include the execution of a Navy-wide celebration and supporting 
community outreach events.
        (2) Establish a Working Group (WG) of key stakeholders to oversee 
planning and program development for the BOM commemoration.
            (a) Director, NHHC will serve as chairman of the BOM WG.
            (b) Provide DNS with a program for the execution of the BOM 
commemoration not later than (NLT) 17 April 2015.
        (3) Develop a commemoration toolkit for use by Commander,
        U.S.
Fleet Forces Command (COMUSFLTFORCOM), Commander, U.S. Pacific Fleet 
(COMPACFLT), Commander, Navy Installations (CNIC), Regional Commanders, 
Commanding Officers (COs), and Officers in Charge (OIC).
            (a) Develop and make available a body of lessons learned at the 
tactical, operational, and strategic levels from previous BOM commemorations.
            (b) Post all documents and associated points of contact
            on
the NHHC website, WWW.HISTORY.NAVY.MIL NLT 1 May 2015.
        (4) Compile Midway lessons learned from other stakeholders
        and
provide to DNS NLT 17 July 2015.
    c.  COMUSFLTFORCOM; COMPACFLT; CNIC; Commander, Navy Reserve
    Force
Command (COMNAVRESFORCOM); Commander, Naval Education and Training Command; 
and Commander, Naval Recruiting Command:
        (1) Provide representatives as necessary to support the BOM
        WG.
        (2) Ensure COs and OICs plan for and commemorate the 73rd anniversary 
of the BOM.
        (3) Execute the Chief of Naval Information (CHINFO) BOM Communication 
Plan and participate in planned community outreach activities as 
operationally feasible.
        (4) Provide BOM lessons learned to NHHC NLT 3 July 2015.
    d.  CHINFO:
        (1) Provide representatives to the BOM WG.
        (2) Develop a Midway communication Plan, including public affairs 
guidance, in coordination with NHHC and provide to ashore and afloat commands 
by 8 May 2015.  This plan should include Navy*s strategic message and talking 
points for this event.
        (3) Provide Midway lessons learned to NHHC NLT 3 July 2015.

5.  Coordinating Instructions:
    a.  Additional coordination instructions and tasking to be provided by 
separate correspondence (SEPCOR) as plans develop.

6.  Administrative:
    a.  The Midway toolkit will be available at the NHHC website
(WWW.HISTORY.NAVY.MIL) NLT 1 May 2015.
    b.  Public Affairs Guidance:
        (1) This is an active public affairs posture event.
        (2) Public affairs guidance will be provided SEPCOR.

7.  Point of contact (POC):
    a.  NHHC POC is Ms. Phyllis Tolzmann, at comm:  (202) 685-1292
DSN: (288) 685-1292 or via email:  phyllis.tolzmann(AT)navy.mil.

8.  Released by Vice Admiral S. H. Swift, Director, Navy Staff.

BT
#0626
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
