UNCLASSIFIED/
ROUTINE
R 211259Z APR 15
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC
BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 090/15

SUBJ/PERSONNEL CASUALTY REPORTING//

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/APR//
REF/A/DOC/DOD/8JAN08//
REF/B/DOC/COMNAVPERSCOM/4OCT12//
NARR/REFERENCE A IS DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE INSTRUCTION 1300.18, DEPARTMENT OF 
DEFENSE (DOD) PERSONNEL CASUALTY MATTERS, POLICIES, AND PROCEDURES. REFERENCE 
B IS MILPERSMAN ARTICLE 1770-030, PERSONNEL CASUALTY REPORT PROCEDURES.//

RMKS/1.  Effective immediately, Personnel Casualty Reports (PCR) shall be 
submitted to the Navy Service Casualty Office (PERS-13), using the internet-
based, common access card-enabled Defense Casualty Information Processing 
System (DCIPS).  Use of this system complies with current personally 
identifiable information protection directives, reduces associated 
administrative duties and allows commands safe, fingertip access to a pre-
formatted report containing all the PCR required elements to expedite 
casualty handling.

2.  Process.  Commands shall log into DCIPS at any of the following URLs: 
https://dcsa.hrc.army.mil/pcr, https://dcsb.hrc.army.mil/pcr,
https://dcsc.hrc.army.mil/pcr, or https://dcsd.hrc.army.mil/pcr, and enter 
required data via the form-based menus within the DCIPS portal.  A step by 
step guide is available on the Navy Personnel Command (NPC) website, Navy 
Casualty at http://www.public.navy.mil/bupers-
npc/support/casualty/Pages/default2.aspx.  In addition to completing the PCR, 
commands should also attach the most current page 2 and Servicemembers Group 
Life Insurance designations to the PCR.  The DCIPS portal has a user-friendly 
file attachment function to accomplish this and these two documents are 
essential for timely next of kin notification, claims processing and other 
associated functions.
    a.  Bandwidth limitations.  Should a reportable casualty occur during a 
time of limited or no bandwidth availability, the command should submit a 
voice report of the casualty concurrent with the required operations report 
to their ISIC or operational commander. Commanders should subsequently enter 
the report into DCIPS via the process previously described.
    b.  Encrypted email.  As an emergency capability only, commands may send 
an encrypted e-mail with pertinent reporting information to the 
mill_navcas_duty@navy.mil inbox.  Report should include reporting command 
information, and required fields identified in the DCIPS reporting guide 
(page 5).  Additionally, commands may attach necessary documents to the e-
mail.  As this is a backup capability, using this method may result in a 
delayed response.

3.  Receiving reports.  Commands and watch stations requiring unfettered 
access to casualty reports should submit a *by name* fully completed System 
Authorization Access Request (SAAR-N) (OPNAV 5239/14) to 
mill_navydcips@navy.mil for consideration. Direct recipients of current 
reports will not be automatically included in the DCIPS distribution and must 
submit SAARs for continued access.

4.  Reportable Casualties.  Commands should strive to submit PCRs within four 
hours, but not more than 12 hours per reference (a), for the following;
    a.  Confirmation of a Sailor death (both active and reserve);
    b.  Very serious illness or injury (VSI) or serious illness or injury 
(SI).  Per reference (b), article 1770-230, the report should contain a 
statement regarding *bedside travel medically warranted/not warranted*, as 
determined by a military medical officer at a military treatment facility 
(MTF).  Receipt of the initial PCR will trigger the applicable MTF to take 
required action in the event of hospitalization in a non-military medical 
facility.  Terminally ill Sailors shall be documented as VSI, with 
appropriate comments in the remarks section.
    c.  Long term illness.  Commands are encouraged to generate a PCR in 
cases of long term illness.  Assistance organizations such as Navy Safe 
Harbor, who monitor PCR message traffic, may be alerted to situations where 
they may potentially assist Sailors.
    d.  Duty-status whereabouts unknown (DUSTWUN).  See reference (b), 
article 1770-020 for proper use of this category.
    e.  Active-duty dependent deaths should also be reported.

5.  Points of contact:
    a.  Emergent reporting assistance numbers are listed on the previously 
mentioned NPC Navy Casualty website.
    b.  General questions may be directed to Mr. Al Gorski at (901)
874-4559/DSN 882, or via e-mail alan.gorski(at)navy.mil, or through the NPC 
Customer Service Center at 1-866-U-ASK-NPC (866-827-5672).

6.  This message will remain in effect until superseded or canceled, 
whichever occurs first.

7.  Released by Vice Admiral W. F. Moran, N1.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
