UNCLASSIFIED

ROUTINE

R 232148Z SEP 15

FM CNO WASHINGTON DC

TO NAVADMIN

INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC

BT
UNCLAS
NAVADMIN 227/15

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/SEP//

SUBJ/NAVY RESERVE PROMOTIONS TO THE PERMANENT GRADES OF CAPTAIN, COMMANDER, 
LIEUTENANT COMMANDER, LIEUTENANT, AND CHIEF WARRANT OFFICERS IN THE LINE AND 
STAFF CORPS//

REF/A/DOC/OPNAV/11JUL11//

REF/B/DOC/OPNAV/28FEB12//

REF/C/DOC/SECNAV/15DEC05//

REF/D/DOC/COMNAVPERSCOM/23JUL07//

NARR/REF A IS OPNAVINST 6110.1J, PHYSICAL READINESS PROGRAM.
REF B IS OPNAVINST 1811.3A, VOLUNTARY RETIREMENT AND TRANSFER TO THE FLEET 
RESERVE OF MEMBERS OF THE NAVY SERVING ON ACTIVE DUTY.  REF C IS SECNAVINST 
1920.6C, ADMINISTRATIVE SEPARATION OF OFFICERS.  REF D IS MILPERSMAN ARTICLE 
1070-180, OFFICER PHOTOGRAPHS.//

RMKS/1.  Congratulations to the following officers on their promotions to the 
ranks indicated in this message.  This NAVADMIN is the authority for 
effecting permanent officer promotions on the dates indicated.  Columns read 
name and designator.
                       PERMANENT PROMOTION TO CAPTAIN
                    SENATE CONFIRMATION DATE 25 JUNE 2014
                        DOR/EFF DATE 1 OCTOBER 2014
 Borgquist Daryl Steven   1655
               CAPTAIN LINE AND STAFF SENATE CONFIRMATION DATE
                  LINE 23 JUNE 2015      STAFF 23 JUNE 2015
                        DOR/EFF DATE 1 OCTOBER 2015
 Bobkowski Sabrina Jane   1205         Burk Bryce Emerson       1835
 Chen Victor Shijei       1655         Dieleuterio Glen Anthony 1445
 Eberly George J III      6235         Emery Gregory Kendall    1805
 Glassmire David Richard  4105         Hogan Charlene Teresa    2905
 Hyde Bryan Patrick       1825         Jones Jonas C            1317
 Kurzenhauser Curt V      1665         Laskey George Wilson     1815
 Marty Jeffrey Lee        1115         Mcdonald Sean P          1207
 Pelczarski Danielle Lor  3105         Phillips Christopher Lee 2505
 Pistole Carl Olin        1515         Reed Jennifer Scanlon    2305
 Robbins James Alan       5105         Rugg Jon E               1525
 Stehman Gregory Thomas   3107         Taylor Gregory M         2105
 Teuschl Thomas Joseph    1315         Vetter Sharon Schwendema 2205
 Walsh Thomas F           1135
                      PERMANENT PROMOTION TO COMMANDER
                         DOR/EFF DATE 1 APRIL 2015
 Turner Kyle Hugh III     1115
                        DOR/EFF DATE 1 OCTOBER 2015
 Asimakopoulos Aaron A    1207         Beattie Jodi Christina   1805
 Beaudoin Brian Edward    1115         Benoit Neal Haygood      1665
 Brett Brendan Damian     1835         Buterbaugh Karen Leigh   2905
 Catalano Allison S       3105         Davis Lance Lee          2105
 Efimba Motale Efiem      1117         Epaloose Heath           1117
 Frangente Craig Stephen  1117         Greene Aaron Timberlake  1115
 Hennings Craig Andrew    1445         Hull Jason S             1815
 Lising Allan Jason       1205         Mahoney John Gerard      2305
 Maldonado Ramon A        1315         Mcafee Eric Christopher  6495
 Mcelwee James W          1125         Mcnerney William Gerard  1315
 Mihaly Michael T         3107         Myrah Christian William  1315
 Nettles Chris B          1825         Nguyen Eugene Thaison    1115
 Oleary James Christopher 5105         Patron Julio Enrique Jr  1525
 Peel James Howard        2505         Pender Jessica Shannon   1665
 Porter Dwayne            1527         Prevatte Arthur V        1115
 Quackenbush Scott Alan   1515         Ray Pratik               4105
 Rothrock John Grayson    1835         Simms Darryl Austin      2205
 Theodore Pierre Reynald  2105         Thompson Tanya Victoria  1115
 West Kevin Leon          1655         Wignes Erik Johannes     1115
 Zablocki John Thomas     1117
                 PERMANENT PROMOTION TO LIEUTENANT COMMANDER
                        DOR/EFF DATE 1 DECEMBER 2014
 Comp Damon Marshal       1315
                        DOR/EFF DATE 1 JANUARY 2015
 Lindsay Robert B         1315
                          DOR/EFF DATE 1 JUNE 2015
 Pike David Edward        2105         Victor Christopher A     1125
                          DOR/EFF DATE 1 JULY 2015
 Beauford Diana Leigh     1315         Dettori Nathan Joseph    2105
 Keck Stephen Asher       2105         Mattingly Lauren Holly   2105
 Walton Marcus Antonia    2105         Wang Jack Chengjie       2105
                       DOR/EFF DATE 1 SEPTEMBER 2015
 Albero Kimberly          2905
                        DOR/EFF DATE 1 OCTOBER 2015
 Abbott Brian J           1325         Allen Jared Lee          1317
 Annen Timothy Nelson     1327         Asaro James Adam         1125
 Bernard Michael Peter Jr 1317         Bertsch Greg A           1315
 Ceschini Joseph J        1805         Chery Joseph Erol        2305
 Collica Joseph Peter     2205         Cribbs Mikell B          3105
 Dalton Kenneth D         1317         Dantice Micah J          1115
 Davidson Ryan Christophe 1317         Denton Tremain Lamont    1205
 Elder John Roy           3105         Emmert Daniel Shawn Jr   1207
 Fisher Gordon Brian      2905         Fitzgerald Steven Matthe 2105
 Ford Malissa A           1325         Gothers Monica           1835
 Graham John P            1317         Harbaugh Jon David       1317
 Hills Robert D           1327         Hime Matthew Scott       3105
 Hobbs Donna Cornelia     2905         Hooke Jeffrey Patrick    1317
 Johnson Kurtis Wright    1325         Johnson William L IV     1317
 Jones Dawn Lizabeth      2905         Jordan Kevin James       1317
 Kalnoske Justin Bernard  1317         Kelleher Edward Austin   1315
 Kennan Zachary A         1515         Kim Kyungnho             1527
 Kugler Sean M            1465         Lacy Timothy R           1317
 Larson Kurt W            1655         Macias Leticia           2305
 Markham Greggory James   1125         Matson Todd R            1315
 Miles Bradley Alan       1317         Mills Kerry Jason        1815
 Montoya Tracy Alan       6455         Muscat Jason Michael     1315
 Naegele Matthew David    1315         Ndaw Mamadou             3107
 Nicolai Robert L         1317         Oh Phillip Suk           5105
 Parker Nicholas Mcavoy   1145         Paule Melissa Courtney   2905
 Quigley Michael Joseph   1835         Ray Kenneth L            1315
 Robinson Grant W         1317         Rodriguez Jay            1315
 Ronayne Casey J          1317         Schweikert Grant Burrage 1315
 Sieber Michael Conrad    1525         Smith Michael John       1317
 Stober Robyn Marie       2505         Sweger Joseph Franklin   1315
 Thomas Latta Roosevelt J 4105         Tolles Peter G II        1835
 Trimble Samuel James     1315         Wallen Matthew P         1117
 Walters Tobias Jacob     1315         Ward John Benjamin       1665
 Williams Jason Christoph 3105         Wilson Brian Charles     1317
                      PERMANENT PROMOTION TO LIEUTENANT
                       DOR/EFF DATE 1 SEPTEMBER 2014
 Bisquera Orly Fabian     5105
                          DOR/EFF DATE 1 JUNE 2015
 Gavin Aaron Edward       1665         Hardt Foster Macleod     1665
 Henderson Steven Thomas  1665         Palmieri Christopher R   1665
 Picillo Brooke Ashley    1665         Reavis Benjamin Charles  1665
 Ublacker Brian Gregg     1665         Vanantwerp Ethan Louis   1665
                        DOR/EFF DATE 1 OCTOBER 2015
 Alarcon Frederic Valdez  2905         Albrecht John Erik       1665
 Alexander Banks Logan    2905         Avilesmendez Johnny      3105
 Baldwin Robert Philip    6135         Benabevidal Jean Carlos  5105
 Bennett James Cecil      3105         Bezeau Kurt Donald       5105
 Brock Sara Renee         2905         Cannon Andrew Patrick    1945
 Cason Susan              2905         Casteel David Gene       6495
 Clements Wade Branson    5105         Cobb William Edward III  2905
 Coley Kareem Ali         1167         Connelly Sean Patrick    3105
 Contini Julie Anne       2905         Costantino Anthony Marco 6455
 Cox Ashley Marie         2905         Cubbage Aaron David      1815
 Delossantos Christine Pa 2905         Diggs Sayeh Ronald       3105
 Doganer Bryce Alexander  1665         Donovan Bryan Eric       1515
 Dougherty Joel Robert    1205         Fontenot Cory Jonathan   1665
 Fraley Everett Lee II    1945         Gabaldo Christoph Willia 1665
 Gaitan Luis Carlos       5105         Gasior Michael J         1665
 Greene Christopher Bret  1527         Growcock Steven Lewis    2905
 Guild David H Jr         6535         Guzman Jorge Alberto     2905
 Hamlin David Richard     2305         Hanley Brendan F         1665
 Heath Maria Jovi Mabutol 2905         Horrocks Eric Dean       1665
 Horvath Damien Edward    1655         Huskey Dawn Lee          2905
 Johnson Jessica Lee      3105         Johnson Theresa Jean     2905
 Junkins Raymond Edward   1465         Kemp Eric Maurice        1205
 Kennedy Joseph Carl      3105         Law Jean Clare           6425
 Lluveres Edgar           1205         Loehrke Luther Steven    1105
 Lopezmaldonado Ruben     5105         Magnusson Jeffrey Philip 5105
 Maldonado Luis Vicente   5105         Mathews Kyle William     1665
 Mcnally David Everett    5105         Merriman William Owen    5105
 Nelson David Carlo       3105         Nusraty Jeffrey Hamed    1835
 Parirokh Iman            1205         Partee Kesean            3105
 Petti Nicholas Paul      3105         Richey William Marino    1665
 Riportella Mario Sefton  2305         Rojas Ingrid Edith       3105
 Santana Magdiel Luis     3105         Schwartz Matthew Jacob   2905
 Selberg Erik Matthew     1105         Shaw Michael Gerard Rich 2905
 Skinner David Daniel     3105         Smith Arnold Gregory     4105
 Sowell Casey Oliver      2905         Sparks Eric Roland       1825
 Stulz John Mason Whiting 1665         Suarez John Wesley       3105
 Tobey Susannah Lee       3107         Tran Khanh Cong          1527
 Tross Jason Michaeljohn  1655         Tweedy Brian R           1665
 Vandyke Alan Timothy     1105         Vegajoyce Rosemary       1465
 Webster Charles Matthew  3105         Wheeler Danielle Ann     2905
 Young Samantha Grace     2305
              PERMANENT PROMOTION TO CHIEF WARRANT OFFICER, W-5
                        DOR/EFF DATE 1 OCTOBER 2015
 Budd Barry David II      7208
              PERMANENT PROMOTION TO CHIEF WARRANT OFFICER, W-4
                        DOR/EFF DATE 1 OCTOBER 2015
 Raile Cory Kenneth       7338         Schaper Craig Stephen    7458
              PERMANENT PROMOTION TO CHIEF WARRANT OFFICER, W-3 No officers 
promoted in this category.

2.  If a selected officer does not decline his or her promotion in writing 
prior to his or her projected date of rank (noted above in paragraph 1), that 
officer is considered to have accepted the promotion on the date indicated.  
An officer who chooses to decline his or her promotion must submit the 
declination in writing to COMNAVPERSCOM (PERS-806), prior to the effective 
date indicated above.

3.  The commanding officer, the Secretary of the Navy or his designee, have 
the authority to delay projected appointments.  Upon the exercise of a delay, 
the officer shall be notified in writing before the effective date of the 
appointment, and not be tendered the appointment.  The delay authority will 
immediately forward the recommendation to delay with supporting documentation 
to COMNAVPERSCOM (PERS-83), copy to COMNAVPERSCOM (PERS-806).

4.  Commanding officers (COs) are reminded of their responsibility to ensure 
the officers they are promoting are mentally, physically,
morally and professionally qualified.   Per reference (a), officers
are ineligible for promotion if they have failed the most recent Physical 
Health Assessment.  COs shall verify the promoting officer's information in 
the Physical Readiness Information Management System (PRIMS) to ensure 
compliance with reference (a) and delay the officers promotion in accordance 
with paragraph 3 if required.

5.  Prepare NAVPERS FORM 1421/7 (rev 10-13).  Use this NAVADMIN as reference 
(a).  Use 10 U.S.C. 14308 as reference (b) for permanent lieutenants and 
above.  Use 10 U.S.C. 12242 as ref (b) for chief warrant officers. Mail the 
completed form to COMNAVPERSCOM (PERS-806).

6.  Officers should review reference (b), for minimum time-in-grade 
requirements for purposes of voluntary retirement.  Full time support 
officers and those officers temporarily on active duty anticipating release 
from active duty under reference (c), may accept promotion without incurring 
any additional active-duty obligation.

7.  New photographs are required for all officers within three months after 
acceptance of promotion.  See reference (d), for specific requirements.

8.  Released by Vice Admiral W. F. Moran, N1.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
