UNCLASSIFIED

ROUTINE

R 192007Z SEP 16

FM CNO WASHINGTON DC

TO NAVADMIN

INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC

BT
UNCLAS
PASS TO OFFICE CODES:
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//

NAVADMIN 209/16

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/SEP//

SUBJ/ENHANCEMENTS TO CAREER INTERMISSION PROGRAM//

REF/A/DOC/OPNAV/14FEB13//

REF/B/DOC/U.S.C./14OCT08//

REF/C/DOC/U.S.C./19DEC14//

REF/D/DOC/U.S.C./25NOV15//

NARR/REF A IS OPNAVINST 1330.2B, NAVY CAREER INTERMISSION PILOT PROGRAM 
GUIDELINES.  REF B IS SECTION 533, PILOT PROGRAMS ON CAREER FLEXIBILITY TO 
ENHANCE RETENTION OF MEMBERS OF THE ARMED FORCES.
REF C IS SECTION 522, EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY TO CONDUCT PROGRAMS ON CAREER 
FLEXIBILITY TO ENHANCE RETENTION OF MEMBERS OF THE ARMED FORCES.  REF D IS 
SECTION 523, EXPANSION OF AUTHORITY TO CONDUCT PILOT PROGRAMS ON CAREER 
FLEXIBILITY TO ENHANCE RETENTION OF MEMBERS OF THE ARMED FORCES.//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN announces recent updates to the Navy's Career 
Intermission Program (CIP) guidelines contained in reference (a), as 
authorized by reference (b).  CIP was developed and authorized to enhance 
retention by permitting temporary inactivation from active- duty and 
providing greater flexibility in career paths.

2.  Reference (c) extended the program to 31 December 2019, requiring all 
participants to return to active-duty no later than
31 December 2022.

3.  Reference (d) now allows greater flexibility in the program.
    a.  Now, service members are eligible to participate in CIP prior to 
completing their initial minimum service requirement or while receiving a 
Critical Skills Retention Bonus.
    b.  There is no longer a limit on the number of CIP participants.

4.  CIP provides a one-time temporary transition from active-duty to the 
Individual Ready Reserve (IRR) for a period of one to three years for service 
members to pursue personal or professional obligations.  The purpose of this 
program is to retain the valuable experience and training of our service 
members who would otherwise be lost due to separation.  Examples of 
participants include, but are not limited to, service members:  starting a 
family, taking care of family members, volunteering for international aid, 
pursuing educational or personal goals, etc.

5.  During the period of inactive duty in the IRR, the service member is 
provided full active-duty Tricare health benefits for themselves and their 
dependents, a monthly stipend of two times 1/30th of their basic pay, and a 
one-time move to a CONUS location of their choice for the duration of their 
participation in the program.  All program participants will return to active 
duty at the end of the period prescribed and will incur a two month for every 
one month of program participation obligated service (OBLISERV) in addition 
to any existing OBLISERV owed to the Navy.  For example, a member who elects 
a one-year period of inactive duty will incur a two-year OBLISERV.

6.  Program participants time in the IRR will not count towards eligibility 
for retirement, computation of retired or retainer pay, computation of total 
years of commissioned service, or high year tenure limitations.  As such, the 
member will not be eligible for consideration for promotion during program 
participation.  Officers will have their date of rank adjusted to a later 
date and enlisted members will be eligible by reason of time-in-grade for 
promotion, to include active-duty service date recalculation.

7.  CIP presents a unique opportunity to support a service members desire to 
take a career off ramp without penalty and return to active-duty to complete 
a successful Navy career.  Talented service members who are looking for 
career flexibility to manage competing personal and professional priorities 
are participating in CIP.  The program is currently in its eighth year with 
121 total participants
(48 officers, 73 enlisted).  While the majority of these participants are 
either still on or just returning from their intermission and have not yet 
reached eligibility for promotion or career milestone screening, early 
results indicate that CIP participants are able to continue to have 
successful careers.  Since returning from intermission and reaching 
eligibility, six officers screened for their next career milestone and five 
officers were selected for promotion.  Additionally, five enlisted personnel 
were selected for commissioning programs and eight were selected for 
advancement to the next higher paygrade.

8.  Relevant instructions and documents can be located under the Career 
Intermission Program tab on the Life-Work Balance page on the NPC website at 
http://www.public.navy.mil/bupers-
npc/support/21st_Century_Sailor/tflw/Pages/CIP.aspx.

9.  Point of contact is LT Steven Jaworski at CIP_MANAGER(at)navy.mil.

10.  Program changes announced by this NAVADMIN will be incorporated into a 
forthcoming revision of reference (a).

11.  Released by Vice Admiral R. P. Burke, N1.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
