UNCLASSIFIED
ROUTINE
R 011908Z MAR 16
FM CHINFO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 054/16

MSGID/GENADMIN/CHINFO/MAR//

SUBJ/ANNUAL CALL FOR APPLICATIONS FROM QUALIFIED NAVY PERSONNEL FOR THE
ADVANCED MILITARY VISUAL JOURNALISM TRAINING PROGRAM//

POC/MCCS(SW/AW) Dean Lohmeyer/CHINFO OI-85/LOC: WASHINGTON DC/
TEL: COMM: (703) 697-6724/DSN: 222-6724//
EMAIL: dean.lohmeyer(at)navy.mil//

RMKS/1.  The Navy is soliciting applications from Mass Communication 
Specialists (MC) for the Advanced Military Visual Journalism (AMVJ) training 
program for academic year 2016-2017.  The program offers two courses of 
study:  Photojournalism (Course number S-400-2013) and Motion Media (Course 
number S-400-2014).  Class reporting date for both courses is tentatively 
scheduled for 27 July 2016 with a projected graduation date of 11 May 2017.

2.  Applications must be submitted electronically and received no later than 
28 March 2016.  Applications must include the following:
    a.  An essay explaining why they are interested in the AMVJ program.
    b.  A photography portfolio or motion media show reel demonstrating 
sufficient technical ability to successfully complete the course. Applicants 
are encouraged to submit both a portfolio and a show reel. Receipt of both 
will automatically allow the applicant to be considered for a seat in either 
program.

3.  Prior to acceptance to the program and distribution of orders, applicants 
must:
    a.  Be approved to reenlist or extend in the MC Rating through June 2020.
    b.  Not reach high year tenure before June 2020.
    c.  Have a command endorsed 1306.
    d.  Be within six months of rotation or obtain approval to transfer 
without a relief.
    e.  Be within physical fitness assessment standards to include no more 
than one PFA failure in the past four years.
    f.  Not have any civil or Non Judicial Punishment violations in the past 
three years.
    g.  Be eligible for a Secret clearance.

4.  Course scope, prerequisites and portfolio/show reel requirements are 
found in the CANTRAC, which can be accessed via the professional development 
section of the Navy Education and Training Command website at 
https://www.netc.navy.mil/Development.aspx.

5.  Parent commands are responsible for eligibility verification of its 
candidates and submission of applicable waivers.  Waivers of prerequisites, 
(e.g., TIS, PG, TOS, etc.) will be considered on a case-by-case basis. 
Commanding Officers should address applicants maturity, ability to work 
independently, financial security, and academic ability when recommending a 
nominee, particularly when requesting waivers.

6.  Because selection to the program requires a Permanent Change of Station 
transfer, applicants require completion of a two-year minimum time on station 
at current command to be eligible to apply. Applicants currently under orders 
may apply and will be considered on a case-by-case basis.  Applicants who 
have executed orders and are en route to their next command are not eligible.  
Primary consideration will be given to applicants with a projected rotation 
date in Fiscal Year 2016.  Navy Personnel Command has the final approval 
prior to final selection.

7.  The selection board will convene in late March 2016.  Selectees will be 
notified via Naval message not later than 15 April 2016.

8.  Point of contact is MCCS(SW/AW) Dean Lohmeyer who can be reached by email 
at dean.lohmeyer(at)navy.mil or by phone at (703) 697-6724.

9.  Request widest dissemination.

10.  Released by Rear Admiral D. E. Cutler, Chief of Information.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
