UNCLASSIFIED

ROUTINE

R 281705Z MAR 16

FM CNO WASHINGTON DC

TO NAVADMIN

INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC

BT
UNCLAS
PASS TO OFFICE CODES:
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//
NAVADMIN 075/16

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/MAR//

SUBJ/ASSIGNMENT OF U.S. FLEET FORCES COMMAND AS EXECUTIVE AGENT FOR READY, 
RELEVANT LEARNING//

REF/A/DOC/CNO/1JAN16//

REF/B/MTG/FCRC/2MAR16//

NARR/REF A IS CNOS A DESIGN FOR MAINTAINING MARITIME SUPERIORITY.  REF B IS 
FLEET COMMANDERS READINESS COUNCIL MEETING.

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN announces the assignment of U.S. Fleet Forces Command
(USFF) as the executive agent (EA) and supported commander for the ready 
relevant learning (RRL) pillar of Sailor 2025.

2.  In support of reference (a), RRL is a transformational Navy training 
initiative that will accelerate the learning of every Sailor for faster 
response to our rapidly changing warfighting requirements, and achieve higher 
performance by coupling the timing of training delivery with every Sailors 
actual deck plate need.  RRL creates a learning continuum across a Sailors 
career, from recruit to master chief that will ensure every Sailor has the 
latest training to support his assigned task.  RRL will modernize delivery 
methods from traditional brick-and-mortar schoolhouses to mobile, multi- 
media, multi-platform delivery solutions that leverage the best concepts to 
accelerate learning as individuals, teams and organizations.  Finally, RRL 
will allow rapid infusion of relevant course content to accelerate the 
dissemination of critical warfighting knowledge to our Sailors.

3.  Command relationship:  USFF is the supported commander for RRL.
Commander, U.S. Pacific Fleet (CPF), Deputy Chiefs of Naval Operations, 
Commanders of Systems Commands, Commander, Navy Personnel Command, Commander, 
Navy Reserve Forces Command, Commander, Navy Recruiting Command, Commander, 
Naval Education and Training Command and force type commanders are supporting 
commands to USFF.  The existing RRL governance structure approved by 
reference (b) will remain in place and is the avenue for the RRL EA to 
resolve issues which require USFF and CPF decision.

4.  The RRL EA shall develop a RRL implementation strategy, integrate RRL 
stakeholder efforts, and direct overall execution of RRL work and related 
projects through appropriate stakeholder chains of command.  The RRL EA shall 
oversee planned RRL funding and articulate requirements for additional 
resourcing as necessary through the Navy Capability Board.
    a.  RRL EA specific tasking.
    b.  RRL EA shall leverage the EA role to achieve the following end
states:
        (1) Design, develop and implement standardized Sailor learning 
continuums and supporting processes Navy-wide, including appropriate vertical 
and horizontal alignment.  Continuums will optimally align individual 
training to the fleets point of need; modernize content delivery with proven 
methods and technologies supported by the science of learning; and integrate 
rapid, responsive content management and embedded learning assessments.
        (2) Design, develop, and implement changes to Manpower, Personnel, 
Training, and Education processes and supporting systems to enable deployment 
and management of RRL learning continuums.  RRL-affected domains include, but 
are not limited to:
        (a) Manpower requirements determinations and management;
        (b) End strength and accession planning;
        (c) Acquisition - Requirements and resources including related human 
systems integration and wholeness issues;
        (d) Sailor distribution;
        (e) Sailor development;
        (f) Integration of Sailor learning continuum events with unit mission 
requirements within the Optimized Fleet Response Plan; and
        (g) Information technology systems required to support manpower, 
personnel and learning management processes.
        (3) Ensure synchronization of all efforts with Sailor 2025 Modernized 
Personnel System and enriched culture pillars.
    c.  To achieve these ends, the RRL EA will stand-up an RRL project office
to:
         (1) Develop RRL implementation strategy and guidance, and oversee 
requirements determination and delivery of coordinated learning goals and 
objectives across the Navy.
         (2) Develop and execute a communications strategy to articulate RRL 
objectives, requirements, programs and policy.
         (3) Assess RRL performance and effects, redirecting efforts as 
necessary.
         (4) Recommend changes to policy, programming, and resourcing levels.
        (5) Provide regular assessments of goals and objectives to Chief of 
Naval Operations and principals of the Fleet Commanders Readiness Council.

5.  USFF Point of Contact is Ms. Kate Perlewitz, USFF N1T, at
(757) 836-0493/DSN 836 or via e-mail at kate.perlewitz(at)navy.mil

6.  Released by Vice Admiral W. F. Moran, N1.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
