UNCLASSIFIED
ROUTINE
R 081524Z JUN 16
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC
BT
UNCLAS
PASS TO OFFICE CODES:
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//

NAVADMIN 134/16

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/JUN//

SUBJ/EXECUTIVE MASTER OF BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION DISTANCE LEARNING DEGREE 
PROGRAM FOR SEPTEMBER 2016//

REF/A/MSG/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/061710ZAUG07//
AMPN/REF A IS NAVADMIN 195/07, OFFICER GRADUATE EDUCATION SERVICE 
OBLIGATION.//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN announces application procedures for the September 
2016 distance learning Executive Master of Business Administration (EMBA) 
program.  The program will be taught in the fleet concentration areas 
(Norfolk, Washington, DC, and San Diego) and other eligible sites.

2.  The Naval Postgraduate School (NPS) defense-focused EMBA is a 24-month, 
fully-funded, part-time graduate program focused on resource management.  The 
program prepares middle to senior grade active-duty officers, lieutenant 
commander (select) and above, whose career paths do not support in-resident 
graduate education.

3.  The program begins with a one-week temporary additional duty (TAD) 
resident program at the NPS campus in Monterey, CA.  Official travel orders 
and funding for TAD travel will be provided by the student's parent command.  
If command funding is not available, students may fund their own travel and 
utilize no-cost TAD orders from their command.  During resident week, 
students will take a two-credit hour course in managing teams.  Additionally, 
students will interact with the faculty who will be teaching throughout the 
program and master the skills required to learn via distance learning 
methods.  The NPS program is scheduled for the week of 19-24 September 2016.  
A block of rooms has been reserved at Navy Lodge, Monterey, CA for attendees.  
Optionally, the NPS bachelor officers quarters on campus may be utilized on a 
space available basis.  Transportation by bus will be provided to and from 
the Navy Lodge for daily classes on the NPS campus to minimize TAD costs.

4.  NPS faculty use video teleconferencing (VTC), and other distance learning 
modes to teach the follow-on courses.  Students meet in VTC capable 
classrooms once a week during normal duty hours for six to seven hours of 
instruction, taking two classes per quarter for eight quarters.  Students 
enter the EMBA program as a cohort and will take all courses together as a 
learning team (minimum 5 personnel).  All students must recognize that 
attending classes with their respective cohort is mandatory to complete the 
degree requirements.  VTC instruction will begin during the week of 27 
September 2016.

5.  Eligibility requirements include an undergraduate degree from a 
regionally accredited 4-year college or university, academic profile code of 
245 (2.6 grade point average or higher on a 4 point scale) and 2 pre-calculus 
courses with a grade average of B or better.  A commanding officer 
endorsement letter is required to participate in the program.  Department 
head or similar mid-level management experience and strong potential for 
promotion are preferred. Participants must have a projected rotation date no 
earlier than September 2018.  The Graduate Management Admission Test is not 
required.

6.  Graduates will be awarded an EMBA degree from NPS and the Navy 
subspecialty code 3100P, Financial Management Defense Focus.  Per reference 
(a), officers participating in this program must agree to remain on active 
duty following completion of graduate studies for a period of three years.  
This obligation is discharged concurrently with any other service obligation 
already incurred.  This agreement does not obligate the Navy to retain the 
officer on active duty.

7.  Officers interested in the EMBA program can visit the NPS EMBA home page 
for detailed eligibility and application process information.  Deadline for 
the application process is no later than 8 July 2016.  The EMBA program 
homepage can be found at www.nps.edu/emba.

8.  Point of contact is the NPS EMBA program office and they can be reached 
at (831) 656-2562/DSN 756, or fax at (831) 656-3630/DSN 756, or via e-mail at 
emba(at)nps.edu.

9.  This message will remain in effect until superseded or 30 July 2016, 
whichever occurs first.

10.  Released by Vice Admiral R. P. Burke, N1.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
