UNCLASSIFIED
ROUTINE
R 091648Z MAY 17 ZFB1 PSN 378389P38
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
INFO CTF 84
BT
UNCLAS
PASS TO OFFICE CODES:
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//

NAVADMIN 114/17

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/MAY//

SUBJ/ANNUAL RECERTIFICATION OF SPECIAL DUTY ASSIGNMENT PAY//

REF/A/DOC/OPNAV/29DEC06//
REF/B/DOC/DOD/10APR09//
REF/C/MSG/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/251710ZMAY16//
NARR/REF A IS OPNAVINST 1160.6B, SPECIAL DUTY ASSIGNMENT PAY (SDAP) PROGRAM.  
REF B IS DOD INSTRUCTION 1304.27, AWARD AND ADMINISTRATION OF SPECIAL DUTY 
ASSIGNMENT PAY.  REF C IS NAVADMIN 120/16, SPECIAL DUTY ASSIGNMENT PAY.//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN announces the annual Special Duty Assignment Pay 
(SDAP) recertification process for Fiscal Year (FY) 2017 and clarifies 
retroactive payments and procedures.  In line with references (a) and (b), 
commanding officers (CO) are required to annually review and certify each 
Sailors entitlement to SDAP.  This certification is to verify every Sailor 
who is assigned to an eligible billet remains qualified to fill the billet 
and is receiving the correct SDAP.  Certification shall commence upon the 
release of this NAVADMIN and continue through 31 August 2017.  In line with 
reference (a), commands that do not complete the required certification by 31 
August 2017 will have their Sailors SDAP terminated retroactive to 1 June 
2017.

2.  To verify if a Sailor is eligible and receiving the correct level of 
SDAP, a complete list of authorized skills and pay amounts can be found at:  
http://www.public.navy.mil/bupers-
npc/career/enlistedcareeradmin/Pages/SRB.aspx.

3.  Follow these procedures to certify your commands SDAP report:
    a.  Obtain and print the annual SDAP report of your command. The annual 
SDAP report only pulls those Sailors that are currently drawing SDAP.
        (1) The command annual SDAP report may be obtained by contacting the 
legacy enlisted distribution verification report help desk at 
MILL_EDVR_HELP(at)NAVY.MIL.
        (2) Annual SDAP report requesters are to include their primary unit 
identification code (UIC) in the subject line and any required subordinate 
UICs in the e-mail body.  SDAP report data will be processed and returned via 
the AMRDEC safe access file exchange process which sends an e-mail from "No-
Reply(at)amrdec.army.mil" with specific instructions on how to access the 
file.
        (3) All command Career Management System-Interactive Detailing (CMS-
ID) users with the activity manning manager (AMM) role will automatically be 
eligible to receive their annual SDAP report.  Requester must also have CMS-
ID AMM access to all subordinate UICs requested.  Commands with no AMM will 
need to submit a CMS-ID AMM access request as outlined on the Navy Personnel 
Command (NPC) web site http://www.public.navy.mil/bupers-
npc/enlisted/cmsid/Pages/default2.aspx.
    b.  Verify your command as a whole and make changes as follows:
        (1) Add all Sailors who are eligible for SDAP, but not listed in the 
annual SDAP report.  To add, simply handwrite or type the name, rate, 
effective date, and level on the bottom of the Annual SDAP report.  If there 
is not enough space, attach a list on command letterhead.
        (2) Draw a line through any Sailor who is no longer eligible and put 
a brief description as to why they are no longer eligible 
(transfer/separation/loss of Navy Enlisted Classifications).
        (3) Verify levels in line with reference (c), and draw a line through 
listed level and replace with new level as required.
        (4) The COs original signature must be on each page of the annual 
SDAP report accompanied by the following statement:  "After review, I certify 
that all required additions and changes have been annotated, actions required 
to start, stop or increase has been processed via Personnel Support 
Detachment prior to submission of recertification and all Sailors at this 
command are receiving the correct SDAP entitlement."  This statement can be 
handwritten, typed, or put on with a label.  A cover letter is not required, 
and only recommended if the command needs more space for Sailors added.
        (5) Provide a point of contact in the top right hand corner of the 
first page of the annual SDAP report.
        (6) Send the SDAP report via encrypted e-mail to PSC(SW/EXW/AW) 
Stannie Gregoire at stannie.gregoire(at)navy.mil.  If you are having trouble 
sending encrypted e-mail, send an e-mail to PSC(SW/EXW/AW) Gregoire so you 
can be added to the contact list. E-mail subject line should read:  
Encryption request for UIC, POC: name and phone number and/or e-mail address.  
E-mail is the preferred method, but if you need to send via regular mail, 
please send to:

    Navy Personnel Command
    ATTN: PSC Stannie C. Gregoire (PERS-81)
    5720 Integrity Drive
    Millington, TN 38055-0130.

        (7) E-mail subject line must contain:  UIC, POC:  rate, name, and 
phone number.
        (8) SDAP recertifications do not go to the Personnel Support 
Detachment (PSD), only the required changes need to be submitted to PSD via 
the transaction online processing system.

4.  Each command is responsible for ensuring updates are made to the Sailors 
record through the commands servicing PSD.  No changes will be made by NPC as 
part of the annual recertification process.  If changes are required by the 
Enlisted Career Administration Department (PERS-81), then send via separate 
correspondence with Sailors name in subject line of the e-mail.

5.  Commands can check the status of their SDAP recertification at
http://www.public.navy.mil/bupers- 
npc/career/enlistedcareeradmin/Pages/SRB.aspx.  Commands are strongly 
encouraged to use this site to ensure all subordinate commands have completed 
the recertification.  Please allow 5 to 10 days after submission to be 
updated on the webpage.

6.  Commands and Sailors will have the ability to receive back pay within the 
current FY.  PSDs may start a Sailors SDAP up to 8 months retroactive to the 
date of the command certification letter, but only within the same FY.  SDAP 
certifications that are between 8 months and 1 year past the SDAP effective 
start date, and within the current FY, can be processed by PERS-81 and will 
require a letter signed by the Immediate Superior In Command, of the command, 
explaining why the members SDAP was not processed in a timely manner.  All 
other SDAP retroactive pay issues should be submitted via a request through 
the Board for Corrections of Naval Records. Payments may cross the FY for 
Sailors who report to a command in August or September, but whose command 
certification is not fully routed until October or November.

7.  Point of contact is PSC(SW/EXW/AW) Stannnie C. Gregoire, PERS-813, at 
(901)874-3260/DSN 882 or via e-mail at stannie.gregoire(at)navy.mil.

8.  This NAVADMIN will remain in effect until superseded or 1 October 2017, 
whichever occurs first.

9.  Released by Vice Admiral R. P. Burke, N1.//

BT
#0625
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
