UNCLASSIFIED/
ROUTINE
R 111331Z MAY 15
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC
BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 116/15

SUBJ/AUGUST 2015 CYCLE 097 NAVY-WIDE EXAMINATIONS FOR ADVANCEMENT OF SELECTED 
RESERVE PERSONNEL TO E4 THROUGH E6//

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/MAY//
REF/A/DOC/BUPERS/2NOV07//
REF/B/MSG/SECNAV WASHINGTON DC/052044ZMAR13//
REF/C/MSG/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/252221ZJUN10//
REF/D/MSG/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/131544ZDEC07//
REF/E/DOC/DOD/1AUG12//
NARR/REF A IS BUPERSINST 1430.16F, ADVANCEMENT MANUAL FOR ENLISTED PERSONNEL 
OF THE U.S. NAVY AND U.S. NAVY RESERVE.  REF B IS ALNAV 015/13, PERSONNEL 
SECURITY INVESTIGATION SUBMISSION REQUIREMENTS. REF C IS NAVADMIN 215/10, 
PERFORMANCE EVALUATION AND ADVANCEMENT GUIDANCE FOR INDIVIDUAL AUGMENTEE 
SAILORS.  REF D IS NAVADMIN 336/07, ADMINISTRATION OF THE NAVY-WIDE 
ADVANCEMENT EXAM FOR SAILORS IN IRAQ, AFGHANISTAN, AND THE HORN OF AFRICA.  
REF E IS DOD INSTRUCTION 1000.30, REDUCTION OF SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER (SSN) 
USE WITHIN DOD.//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN announces Cycle 097 Navy-wide advancement examinations 
(NWAE) for advancement in rate of Selected Reserve (SELRES) personnel.
    a.  SELRES exams will be administered in August 2015.
    b.  All candidates serving on voluntary recall or mobilization will 
compete for advancement as a SELRES.
    c.  This NAVADMIN supplements reference (a).
    d.  In addition to the requirements of reference (a), chapter 6, 
Educational Services Officers (ESOs) must follow the pre-exam preparation 
requirements in the exam verbatim, located at 
https://www.nko.navy.mil/group/navy-advancement-center.

2.  Eligibility Requirements.  Advancement candidate eligibility requirements 
are found in reference (a), chapter 2 with the following information specific 
only to Cycle 097:
    a.  SELRES candidates must meet all basic eligibility requirements no 
later than 31 July 2015.
    b.  The terminal eligibility date used to compute time-in-rate (TIR) is 1 
January 2016.
    c.  The minimum TIR date must be on or before:
        E6 - 1 January 2013
        E5 - 1 January 2015
        E4 - 1 July 2015
    d.  E6 candidates with an approved TIR waiver must have a TIR of 1 
January 2014 or earlier.
    e.  High year tenure (HYT) date or approved HYT waiver date must be on or 
after 1 January 2016.
    f.  Candidates in a rating requiring a security clearance must have a 
favorable investigation adjudication issued by Department of Defense (DoD) 
Central Adjudication Facility or the commanding officer's interim clearance 
must have been granted before 1 August 2015.  Sailors in the following 
ratings must, at a minimum, maintain continuous security clearance 
eligibility for this cycle: AC, AE, AG, AO, ATI, ATO, AWF, AWO, AWR, AWS, AZ, 
CTI, CTN, CTR, CTT, EOD, ET, FC, GM, HT, IC, IS, IT, LN, MA, MC, MN, ND, OS,
QM, SB, SO, STG, STS, and YN.  Refer to reference (b) for additional 
guidance.
    g.  Change of rate and retention approvals must be approved and completed 
no later than 31 July 2015.
    h.  Compute performance mark average (PMA) using all evaluations in the 
candidate's current rank with an ending date that falls within the following 
time periods:
        E4 exam - 1 January 2015 to 31 July 2015
        E5 exam - 1 June 2014 to 31 July 2015
        E6 exam - 1 August 2012 to 31 July 2015
    i.  For additional guidance on computing PMA, refer to reference (a), 
chapter 3.  For PMA guidance for individual augmentee (IA) Sailors, refer to 
reference (c).

3.  Exam Ordering:
    a.  Deploying commands can order exams up to six months prior to the 
scheduled examination date.  Refer to reference (d) for IA Sailors.
    b.  CTI/CTN/CTR sensitive compartmented information (SCI) exam web 
ordering dates can be found on the Navy Enlisted Advancement System (NEAS) 
website at https://neasos.cnet.navy.mil.
        (1) ESOs must verify TIR eligibility lists on the NEAS website for 
initial exam ordering.
        (2) Additional exams are ordered via message or in message format via 
e-mail to sfly_cryptologic.products(at)navy.mil following the guidelines of 
reference (a), chapter 4.  Commands must include their DoD activity address 
code account number, point of contact (POC), and the number of exams 
required.  Commands requesting the forwarding of exams should include the 
forwarding command as an info addressee on the message.  The deadline for 
additional orders is 1 July 2015.
    c.  Exam web ordering for non-SCI exams begins 26 May 2015. ESOs must 
verify TIR eligibility lists on the NEAS website during the following time 
periods:
        (1) Initial TIR lists will be available 26 May to 23 June 2015.
        (2) Additional TIR lists will be available 1 July to 4 August 2015.
        (3) Exams required after the TIR list has closed as well as exams for 
prior service reenlistment eligibility - reserve Sailors are ordered via 
message or in message format via e-mail to sfly_N321_exam_order(at)navy.mil 
following the guidelines of reference (a), chapter 4.  Ensure a POC is 
included in the message.
    d.  Exams for IA Sailors or recalled reservists will be ordered by the 
command holding the service record of the member.  Authority is granted for 
these candidates to be administered exams with the command's active-duty 
candidates.  However, these candidates are still required to take the Cycle 
097 exam and not the Cycle 228 exam.
    e.  When an exam is not used during the normally scheduled event, do not 
destroy the exam prior to 1 October 2015.  Submit a request with 
justification via e-mail to sfly_n321_exam_order(at)navy.mil for permission 
to retain exams for administration on the next drill weekend in September. 
Ensure reason for requested delay is included.
    f.  ESOs must verify the exam order status at the "View Previous Exam 
Orders" link via the NEAS website within 14 days of placing examination 
orders.  If discrepancies are noted, contact Naval Education and Training 
Professional Development and Technology Center.

4.  Exam Administration and Answer Sheet Returns.
    a.  Refer to the exam verbatim for exam administration and answer sheet 
return instructions.
    b.  ESOs must check the exam tote board on the NEAS website,
https://neasos.cnet.navy.mil/neas/public/toteboard.aspx, often to ensure 
answer sheets have been received and processed.
    c.  The deadline for regular cycle administration is 31 August 2015.  
Approved late exams must be administered no later than 30 September 2015.
    d.  A detailed discrepancy list will be maintained on the NEAS website.  
For guidance on correcting discrepancies via encrypted e-mail, refer to 
reference (a), chapter 7.
    e.  Per reference (e), NWAE correspondence for advancement Cycle 097 and 
all future exam cycles must be processed using the DoD identification number.  
Correspondence sent to the advancement center with the candidate*s social 
security number cannot be processed.

5.  Exam Results.
    a.  E4-E6 results will be provided via BUPERS On-Line to authorized 
command representatives prior to release of profile sheets.
    b.  Commands are directed to verify the examination status verification 
report for accuracy before frocking and/or advancement of E4-E6 candidates.
    c.  Individual Sailors may view/download their profile sheet at the 
"Profile Sheets" link on the Navy Knowledge On-line Navy Advancement Center 
website under the *Career Management* link.

6.  Points of Contact:
    a.  NPC Customer Service Center at 866-U-ASK-NPC/866-827-5672 or via 
e-mail at uasknpc(at)navy.mil.
    b.  For SCI exam questions and orders, 850-473-5874/DSN 753.
    c.  For exam orders, records, and discrepancies, 850-473-6148/DSN 753.

7.  For further information (exam verbatim, advancement manual, and other 
related documents) visit the NKO website at 
https://www.nko.navy.mil/group/navy-advancement-center.

8.  This NAVADMIN will remain in effect until superseded or canceled, 
whichever occurs first.

9.  Released by Vice Admiral W. F. Moran, N1.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
