UNCLASSIFIED//

ROUTINE

R 142020Z MAR 19

FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//DNS//

TO NAVADMIN

INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC

BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 064/19

PASS TO OFFICE CODES:
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//DNS//

SUBJ/NAVAL HISTORY AND HERITAGE COMMEMORATION - VIETNAM WAR//

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/DNS/MAR//

RMKS/1.  The U.S. Navy performed a wide array of missions during the Vietnam 
War.  In the air, the Navy was a key partner with the U.S. Air Force during 
the Rolling Thunder and Linebacker air campaigns against North Vietnam, and 
in other air operations in Laos and Cambodia.  On the coast, it developed a 
highly effective blockade to prevent the resupply of enemy forces by sea, 
engaged in naval gunfire support missions against enemy targets in the 
littoral areas of Vietnam, and provided amphibious transport for Marines 
operating in I Corps.  On the rivers, Navy task forces protected commercial 
traffic, assisted allied ground forces in pacifying these areas, and 
interdicted enemy troops and supplies moving on these inland waterways.  The 
U.S. Navy also supported the war effort with a massive sea and riverine 
logistics operation, built and managed shore facilities throughout South 
Vietnam, and provided extensive medical support for the allied military 
operation.  A total of 1.8 million Sailors served in Southeast Asia.  The 
Navy provided the allied effort with many unique capabilities, the most 
significant being the projection of U.S. combat power ashore and control of 
the seas to support a land war in Asia far from the United States.  Overall, 
the Navy suffered the loss of 1,631 men killed and 4,178 wounded during the 
course of the war.

2.  To ensure the sacrifices of the 9 million who served during this 
difficult chapter of our country's history are remembered for generations to 
come, President Donald Trump signed into law the Vietnam War Veterans 
Recognition Act of 2017, designating March 29 of each year as National 
Vietnam Veterans Recognition Day.  On March 29 we honor all those who 
answered our Nation's call to duty in Vietnam.  With conviction, our Nation 
pledges our enduring respect, our continuing care, and our everlasting 
commitment to all Vietnam Veterans.

3.  Mission.  Meet the President's direction by honoring and recognizing 
Vietnam Veterans for their service to the Nation and Navy.

4.  Commander's Intent
    a.  Purpose.  Commemorate National Vietnam War Veterans Day throughout 
the Navy on 29 March 2019.
    b.  Method.  Command-centric execution of a coordinated Navy-wide 
National Vietnam War Veterans Day commemoration.
        (1) Use available Navy outreach assets to maximum extent possible.
        (2) Be guided by, and supportive of, the Navy's strategic messaging.
    c.  End State:  The National Vietnam War Veterans Day commemoration 
becomes an institutionalized community outreach and Navy pride event for all 
Sailors, past and present, observed globally through the end of the 
commemoration in 2025.

5.  Tasks
    a.  Director, Navy Staff (DNS) will oversee planning and program 
development for the National Vietnam War Veterans Day commemoration.
    b.  Director, Naval History and Heritage Command (NHHC).
        (1) Coordinate and support the execution of the commemoration events 
to include the execution of a Navy-wide observation and supporting community 
outreach events.
        (2) Conduct National Vietnam War Veterans Day Ceremony at Navy 
museums.
    c.  At 1200 local on 28 March 2019.
        (1) Submarine Force Museum/Historic Ship NAUTILUS.  Naval Base New 
London, Groton, CT.  POC:  LCDR Bradley Boyd/bradley.m.boyd1(AT)navy.mil/ 
860-694-4276.
    d.  At 1200 local on 29 March 2019.
        (1) National Naval Aviation Museum.  Pensacola, FL.  POC:  Sterling 
Gilliam/
sterling.gilliam(AT)navy.mil/850-452-3604 x3118.
        (2) Naval War College Museum.  Naval Station Newport, Newport, RI.
POC:  Ryan Meyer/ryan.meyer(AT)usnwc.edu/401-841-1296.
        (3) United States Naval Academy Museum.  U.S. Naval Academy, 
Annapolis, MD.
POC:  CAPT Chris Rentfrow/rentfrow(AT)usna.edu/410-293-5275.
        (4) United States Navy Seabee Museum.  Naval Base Ventura County Port 
Hueneme, Port Hueneme, CA.  POC:  Lara Godbille/lara.godbille(AT)navy.mil/
805-982-5167.
        (5) National Museum of the American Sailor.  Naval Station Great 
Lakes, Great Lakes, IL.  POC:  Jennifer Searcy/jennifer.searcy(AT)navy.mil/
nmas.fct(AT)navy.mil/847-688-3154 x205.
        (6) Hampton Roads Naval Museum.  Norfolk, VA.  POC:  John Pentangelo/ 
john.pentangelo(AT)navy.mil/757-322-2990.
        (7) Navy Museums Northwest. Keyport, WA.  POC:  Lindy Dosher/ 
lindy.dosher(AT)navy.mil/360-396-4164.
    e.  At 1100 local on 29 March 2019.
        (1) National Museum of the U.S. Navy.  Washington Navy Yard, 
Washington, DC.
POC:  Mark Weber/mark.t.weber(AT)navy.mil/202-433-6901.
            (a) Develop a commemoration toolkit for use by Commander, U.S. 
Fleet Forces Command (COMUSFLTFORCOM), Commander, U.S. Pacific Fleet 
(COMPACFLT), Commander, Navy Installations Command (CNIC), Regional 
Commanders, Commanding Officers (CO), and Officers in Charge (OIC).
            (b) Compile lessons learned from stakeholders and provide to DNS 
NLT
18 April 2019.
    f.  COMUSFLTFORCOM; COMPACFLT; CNIC; Commander, Navy Reserve Force 
Command (COMNAVRESFORCOM); Commander, Naval Education and Training Command; 
and Commander, Naval Recruiting Command:
        (1) Ensure COs and OICs plan for and commemorate the National Vietnam 
War Veterans Day proclamation.
            (a) For commands located near a Navy Museum, consideration should 
be given to leveraging already existing event.
            (b) Execute the Communication Plan, disseminated by NHHC, and 
participate in planned community outreach activities as operationally 
feasible.
        (2) Provide lessons learned to NHHC NLT 11 April 2019.

6.  Coordinating Instructions
    a.  Additional coordination instructions and tasking to be provided by 
separate correspondence (SEPCOR) as plans develop.

7.  Administrative
    a.  The National Vietnam War Veterans Day commemoration toolkit is 
available at the NHHC website (https://www.history.navy.mil/browse-by-
topic/commemorations-toolkits/
Vietnam-War-Veterans-Day.html).
    b.  Public Affairs Guidance:
        (1) This is an active public affairs posture event.
        (2) Public affairs guidance will be provided SEPCOR.

8.  Point of contact.  NHHC POC is Dale Eng, at comm:  (202) 433-7880 or via 
email:  dale.a.eng(AT)navy.mil.

9.  Released by Ms. Steffanie B. Easter, Director, Navy Staff.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//

