UNCLASSIFIED

ROUTINE

R 052009Z JUL 17

FM CNO WASHINGTON DC

TO NAVADMIN

INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC

BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 163/17

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N2N6/JUL//

SUBJ/2017 ANNUAL DoD CHIEF INFORMATION OFFICER AWARD  CALL FOR NOMINATIONS//

REF/A/DoD IT ENVIRONMENT WAY FORWARD/AUG 2016//

REF/B/2017 ANNUAL DoD CIO AWARDS GUIDANCE/23MAY17//

NARR/REF A IS DoD INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY ENVIRONMENT, WAY FORWARD TO 
TOMORROWS STRATEGIC LANDSCAPE.  REF B IS DoD CIOs OVERVIEW AND GUIDANCE FOR 
THE 2017 DoD CIO AWARDS PROGRAM.// POC/SALAZAR/MR./OPNAV N2N6BC/-/TEL:  (571) 
256-8248
/EMAIL:  JOSEPH.A.SALAZAR1(AT)NAVY.MIL//

RMKS/1.  Department of Defense Chief Information Officer (DoD CIO) has 
announced the 2017 DoD CIO Awards Program call for nominations.  This annual 
event, now in its 17th year, recognizes individuals and teams within the DoD 
Information Technology (IT) Community for outstanding achievement in 
delivering forward-leaning, strategically impactful IT capabilities and IT 
management practices.  This award is one of the highest honors acknowledging 
the IT communitys contributions.

2.  Please submit your best individual and team nominations to Ms.
Michele Boswell, e-mail:  Shirley.boswell(at)navy.mil no later than July 17, 
2017.  Evaluation criteria have been revised to align with today's 
technological environments and management approaches and will focus emphasize 
on the Information Environment Mission Area.  Awards will recognize 
achievement for advancing and actualizing the goals and objectives set forth 
in reference (A).  Nominations will be evaluated on outstanding achievement 
in one or more of the six critical areas:  Relevance to CIO Strategic Goals, 
Mission Impact, Innovation, Improved Information Delivery /Dissemination, 
Management Efficiency/Effectiveness (Better, Faster, Cheaper), and Magnitude 
of Cost Savings or Avoidance.  The 2017 Annual DoD CIO Awards 
Guidance/nomination template (to be submitted in MS Word format), and past 
winner examples are located in reference (B).  Nominations received after 
July 17, 2017 will not be considered and those submitted directly to DoD CIO 
will be rejected by the DoD CIO.

3.  The DoD CIO Awards Ceremony is scheduled for 1100 EST on Thursday, 
November 30, 2017, in room B-6 of the Pentagon Library and Conference Center.

4.  Released by VADM Jan E. Tighe, Deputy Chief of Naval Operations for 
Information Warfare, OPNAV N2N6.

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
