UNCLASSIFIED/
ROUTINE
R 181451Z MAY 15
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC
BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 122/15

SUBJ/2015 SPRING INTELLIGENCE AWARDS RESULTS//

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N2N6/MAY//
POC/OBRADOVICH/LT/OPNAV N2N6C1/-/TEL:  (703) 604-6152/TEL:  DSN 664-
6152/EMAIL:  MARK.OBRADOVICH(AT)NAVY.MIL

RMKS/1.  It is with great pleasure that I announce the selectees for the 
following 2015 Intelligence Community awards.

2.  Herman Dworkin Award for Maritime Analytic Excellence.  Since 1983, the 
Herman Dworkin award is presented annually to the civilian or military 
analyst working maritime issues who exemplifies, through his or her work and 
attitude, Mr. Dworkin's traits of analytic expertise, strength of character, 
initiative, industriousness, and exactitude.  This year's Herman Dworkin 
awardee is Mr. Timothy W. Bishop, assigned to Pacific Fleet.

3.  Rear Admiral Edwin T. Layton Leadership Award.  Established by the 
Director of Naval Intelligence in 2001, the RDML Edwin T. Layton Award 
recognizes mid-to-senior active or reserve component Intelligence Officers, 
Chief Warrant Officers, and enlisted personnel for outstanding leadership and 
mentorship in the furtherance of naval intelligence performance.  This year*s 
RDML Edwin T. Layton Awardees are:
    a.  CAPT James L. Bock, Navy Information Dominance Forces
    b.  CAPT Christopher S. Crews, U.S. Strategic Command, Navy Reserve 
USSTRATCOM Intelligence Dekalb, Joint Reserve Intelligence Support Element 
Dekalb
    c.  CDR Jason C. English, U.S. THIRD Fleet
    d.  CDR Dorothy S. Milbrandt, Joint Special Operations Command
    e.  CDR Thomas A. Murphy, Joint Special Operations Command Intelligence 
Brigade
    f.  CDR David M. Overcash, Submarine Group SEVEN
    g.  LCDR Matthew J. Acanfora, U.S. THIRD Fleet
    h.  ISCS(IDW/SW) Jeremy G. Heyer, Center For Information Dominance Unit 
Hampton Roads
    i.  IS1(SW/AW) David J. Montgomery, USS NEW YORK (LPD 21)
    j.  IS1(SW) Deborah A. Phillips, Joint Chiefs Of Staff

4.  Vice Admiral Rufus L. Taylor Award for Excellence in Instruction.  
Established in 1989, the VADM Rufus L. Taylor Award for Excellence in 
Instruction honors instructors who exhibit principles which VADM Taylor 
exemplified throughout his career, such as a desire for professional 
knowledge, intellectual curiosity, initiative, enthusiasm, ability to command 
respect and motivate others, devotion to duty, effective communication 
skills, and personal and intellectual integrity.  One instructor from each of 
the fleet's Primary Intelligence Training Centers, Center for Information 
Dominance Unit Hampton Roads and Center for Information Dominance Unit San 
Diego, is chosen.  These two training centers play a vital role in the 
continued health of our community of intelligence professionals.  This year*s 
VADM Taylor Award for Excellence in Instruction awardees are:
    a.  IS1(IDW/EXW/SW/AW) Heather J. Hansen, Center for Information 
Dominance Unit Hampton Roads
    b.  LT Sarah A. Sheehan, Center for Information Dominance Unit San Diego

5.  Vice Admiral Rufus L. Taylor Award for Leadership.  The VADM Rufus L. 
Taylor Award for Leadership was established in 1985 to recognize exemplary 
leadership and exceptional dedication to duty within the naval intelligence 
community.  One senior active component Officer, Chief Warrant Officer, 
enlisted member, or civilian are selected for this award annually.  This 
year's VADM Rufus L. Taylor Award for Leadership awardees are:
    a.  Active:  CAPT Steven L. Horrell, Joint Intelligence Operations Center 
Europe Analytic Center
    b.  Reserve:  IS1(IDW) Derek D. Declue, Navy Reserve Office Of Naval 
Intelligence 0813

6.  I am honored to lead such a fine cadre of intelligence professionals and 
congratulate you all for your service to the nation.  BRAVO ZULU!

7.  Released by VADM Ted N. Branch, OPNAV N2/N6.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
