UNCLASSIFIED
ROUTINE
R 312208Z MAY 16
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 125/16

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/DNS/MAY//

SUBJ/CALENDAR YEAR 2015 MARJORIE STERRETT BATTLESHIP AWARD RECIPIENTS//

REF/A/DOC/CNO/14MAR16//

AMPN/REF A IS OPNAVINST 3590.11G, THE ARLEIGH BURKE FLEET TROPHY/
MARJORIE STERRETT BATTLESHIP FUND AWARD/USS ARIZONA MEMORIAL TROPHY./

RMKS/1.  The Marjorie Sterrett Battleship Fund Award was established in 1917 
by the New York Tribune Association.  The fund was initiated by a letter from 
13 year old Marjorie Sterrett in February 1916. Marjorie contributed her 
weekly allowances of a dime to "help build a battleship for Uncle Sam."  
Prior to World War II, income from this fund was used to pay prizes annually 
to turret and gun crews making the highest scores in torpedo firing.  It is 
now used to recognize those ships which displayed battle efficiency and 
emphasize readiness and fitness of the ship.

2.  It is an honor to announce the calendar year 2015 Marjorie Sterrett 
battleship fund award winners for superior performance in battle efficiency 
among auxiliary units and MCMs:
    a.  Atlantic Fleet:  USS MONSOON (PC 4)
    b.  Pacific Fleet:   USS CHAMPION (MCM 4)

3.  Selection for this award reflects the professionalism and dedication of 
these two units. 
    a.  USS MONSOON (PC 4) exemplified operational readiness and ship fitness 
throughout 2015.  MONSOON Flawlessly executed several high priority 
operations, to include multi-national exercises EASTERN SAILOR and NAUTICAL 
UNION.  MONSOON also conducted complex bi-lateral exercises with both the 
Kuwaiti and Iraqi Navies and Coast Guards. She distinguished herself by 
consistently setting and meeting high material readiness and operational 
standards.  The crew has an exceptional safety record and has demonstrated 
the highest level of professional as mariners and warfighters.
    b.  USS CHAMPION's (MCM 4) high standards and consistent superior 
performance set her apart as the clear choice for the 2015 Marjorie Sterrett 
Battleship Fund Award.  CHAMPION flawlessly integrated into task group level 
operations in direct support of Commander, U.S. Northern Command Maritime 
Homeland Defense (MHD) training objectives. Additionally, She hosted four MIW 
Evaluator (MCM TAO-equivalent) training sessions that served to advance the 
qualifications of aspiring Evaluators and Combat Minemen, and to improve the 
tactical proficiency of the MCM force.  During Kline Survey Operations, the 
CHAMPION expertly planned and executed underwater survey operations in 
support of the MHD of the approaches to the West Coast's two largest ports.  
Proud and committed to excellence, CHAMPION's crew was lauded by Naval 
Surface Warfare Center for providing exceptional data quality.

4.  Congratulations to USS MONSOON (MCM 4) and USS CHAMPION (PC 4). Your 
unmatched dedication and professionalism exemplify the highest ideals and 
spirit represented by this prestigious award.

5.  Released by Vice Admiral R. L. Thomas, Director, Navy Staff//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
