UNCLASSIFIED//
ROUTINE
R 211605Z DEC 15
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC
BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 294/15

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/DEC//

SUBJ/COMPRESSION OF BUILDER, ENGINEERING AIDE AND STEELWORKER RATINGS AT 
E-8//

REF/A/DOC/OPNAV/28DEC09//
AMPN/REF A IS OPNAVINST 1223.1C, NAVY ENLISTED OCCUPATIONAL CLASSIFICATION 
SYSTEM.//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN is to announce the establishment for compressing the 
Builder (BU), Engineering Aide (EA) and Steelworker (SW) general ratings at 
the E-8 paygrade to Senior Chief Constructionman (CUCS).  This applies to 
both active and reserve component personnel.  The establishment of the CUCS 
compression rating will take effect 30 days after the release of this 
NAVADMIN.

2.  An extensive review of advancement opportunity, career diversity and duty 
assignments of BUCS, EACS and SWCS was conducted.  It was determined that all 
three general ratings would benefit from a merger at the E-8 pay grade and 
form the compression rating of CUCS.

3.  A specific rating badge for CUCS will not be required.  They will utilize 
the same badge criteria as Master Chief Constructionman (CUCM) and continue 
to wear their source rating badge.

4.  Those who are eligible to compete for BUCS, EACS and SWCS will now 
compete as one group for selection to CUCS.  The first selection boards 
impacted will be the FY-17 reserve and active E-8 selection boards convening 
on 29 February 2016 and 18 April 2016 respectively. All valid letters to the 
board received from prior BUCS, EACS, and SWCS candidates will be considered 
in the CUCS competitive group.

5.  All billets previously coded as BUCS, EACS and SWCS will now be coded as 
CUCS and available for any CUCS to fill.  Sea shore flow will follow source 
rate tour lengths as outlined in NAVADMIN 361/12.

6.  A frequently asked questions information sheet is posted on the enlisted 
community managers webpage at http://www.public.navy.mil/bupers-
npc/enlisted/community/Pages/default.aspx

7.  Point of contact for this matter is LCDR Khalid Woods, at 
901-874-2037/DSN 882 or via e-mail at khalid.woods(at)navy.mil.

8.  Released by Vice Admiral W. F. Moran, N1.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
