RTTUZYUW RHOIAAA1341 2401626-UUUU--RHSSSUU
ZNR UUUUU
R 281618Z AUG 14
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 201/14

SUBJ/NAVY ATTENDANCE AT THE 4-7 SEP 2014 ANNUAL TAILHOOK ASSOCIATION 
SYMPOSIUM//

POC/G. Moore/CAPT/Unit: CNAP/TEL: (619)545-4491/EMAIL: 
geoffrey.moore(at)navy.mil//
POC/B. Martinez/LCDR/Unit: CNAP/TEL: (619)545-1418/EMAIL: 
brian.a.martinez1(at)navy.mil//
POC/Airlift/D. Hughes/Unit: CNAL/david.c.hughes(at)navy.mil
POC/Reno, NV Ground Transportation/B. 
Martinez/Unit:CNAP/brian.a.martinez1(at)navy.mil//
UNCLASSIFIED/
REF/A/LTR/SECNAV/24APR14/NOTAL//
REF/B/DOC/DOD/5500.07-R/17NOV2011//
REF/C/DOC/DOD/29SEP2012//
NARR/REF A IS SECNAV CONFERENCE APPROVAL MEMORANDUM. REF B IS DOD PUBLICATION 
5500.07-R JOINT ETHICS REGULATION REGARDING OFFICIAL PARTICIPATION IN NON-
FEDERAL ENTITIES. REF C IS DOD MEMORANDUM IMPLEMENTATION OF CONFERENCE 
OVERSIGHT REQUIREMENTS AND DELEGATION OF CONFERENCE APPROVAL AUTHORITY.//

RMKS/1. The Tailhook Association will hold its Annual National Symposium in 
Reno, NV, at the Nugget Hotel from 5-6 September 2014. The 2014 theme is 
*Test and Evaluation."

2. The Tailhook Association membership is over 9,600 strong, consisting of 
active duty, reserve, and retired military members dedicated to the goal of 
enhancing the professionalism of military members working in the field of 
Naval Aviation. The Annual Symposium provides the opportunity for a wide 
discussion on a broad range of professional and career issues of interest to 
its extensive and diverse membership.  It is a forum in which attendees can 
address and work together to present innovative solutions to today*s issues 
and tomorrow's naval aviation challenges.

3. Per ref A, a limited use of government funds to attend Tailhook 2014 has 
been approved. The following restrictions apply:
    A. Attendance at no cost to the Department of the Navy (DoN) is 
authorized with supervisors* approval.
    B. The number of participants attending in a TAD status on cost orders is 
capped at 211 and cannot exceed $230,000 total cost. Travel, lodging, and per 
diem has been approved for a select number of attendees as approved in ref A. 
CNAP is in charge of tracking all TDY attendees for the DoN. Attendees from 
commands outside CNAP shall contact POCs listed above prior to obligating TDY 
funds to ensure total cost to DoN remains within pre-approved guidelines. 
Personnel approved still need to gain TDY authorization from the first Flag 
in their respective chain of command. (Note: registration on the Tailhook 
website does not constitute approval to travel using funds authorized in ref 
A; Travel under Temporary Additional Duty (TAD) status must be coordinated 
with CNAP.)
   C. Rental cars are not authorized for attendees traveling by air.  The 
host hotel will provide an airport shuttle.  Questions regarding Reno area 
transportation should be forwarded to POCs.
   D.  Attendees traveling by military airlift should use ground 
transportation provided by the Tailhook Association.
   E. Lodging and meals will be reimbursed to the attendees in a TAD status 
only at the authorized per diem rate.  Attendees must annotate their travel 
vouchers if meals are provided by the symposium host.

4.  In addition, all Commanding Officers are authorized to grant non-funded, 
no cost TAD orders at their discretion.

5. Attendees and travel authorizing officials must be mindful of the need to 
be good stewards of taxpayer dollars in attending the symposium and are 
directed to follow the guidance in refs B and C when authorizing travel. TAD 
orders may cover expenses incident to attendance and participation in the 
symposium, including transportation, per diem, and lodging fees. If funds are 
not available, permissive TAD orders may be issued.   If applicable, 
attendees are required to file tax exemption forms to reduce lodging 
expenses.

6.  Uniforms:  To ensure maximum participation, participants will be in 
appropriate civilian attire or locally prescribed uniform.

7. Questions regarding the symposium should be directed to the Tailhook 
administrative office at 1-800-322-4665 or visit www.tailhook.org.

8. Released by Rear Admiral M. C. Manazir, Director, Air Warfare.//

BT
#1341
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//

