UNCLASSIFIED//

ROUTINE

R 281627Z DEC 18

FM CNO WASHINGTON DC

TO NAVADMIN

INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC

BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 320/18

MSGID/NAVADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N4/DEC//

SUBJ/2018 NAVY COMMUNITY SERVICE ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP FLAGSHIP AWARD 
WINNERS//

REF/A/DOC/BUPERS/13MAR2008//

AMPN/REF A IS BUPERSINST 1650.12E, NAVY COMMUNITY SERVICE OF THE YEAR AWARD 
PROGRAM.// POC/MS. JULIANA HENKEL/N453P/TEL:703-695-5092/EMAIL:
JULIANA.HENKEL(AT)NAVY.MIL//

RMKS/1.  Each year the Navy recognizes shore, sea, and overseas commands for 
outstanding community service efforts as outlined in reference (a) by 
presenting awards in six categories:  USS BAINBRIDGE (CGN 25) Award for 
Overall Excellence; Personal Excellence Partnership Flagship; Health, Safety, 
and Fitness Flagship; Campaign Drug Free Flagship; Project Good Neighbor 
Flagship; and Environmental Stewardship Flagship.

2.  As sponsor of the Environmental Stewardship Flagship, the Deputy Chief of 
Naval Operations for Fleet Readiness and Logistics (N4) salutes commands 
engaged in exemplary voluntary community service activities that promote good 
stewardship of environmental resources.

3.  For the 2018 Environmental Stewardship Flagship awards competition, 
nominations were received in the small, medium, and large shore categories; 
and the medium and large sea categories.

4.  It is with great pleasure that I announce the winners and honorable 
mentions of the 2018 Navy Community Service Environmental Stewardship 
Flagship awards competition:
a. Small Shore
   Winner: Center for Naval Aviation Technical Training
   Unit, Lemoore
   Honorable Mention: Afloat Training Group Middle Pacific b. Medium Shore
   Winner: Pacific Missile Range Facility
   Honorable Mention: Fleet Readiness Center Southwest
   Detachment Point Mugu
c. Large Shore
   Winner:  Naval Air Station Whidbey Island
   Honorable Mention: Naval Air Station Patuxent River d. Medium Sea
   Winner:  Helicopter Sea Combat Squadron TWO THREE e. Large Sea
   Winner:  Naval Mobile Construction Battalion 3

5.  Our relationships with the communities in which we live and work are an 
essential piece of the Navys mission readiness.  Without the support of those 
local communities, our ability to service our warfighting platforms, maintain 
safe and healthy infrastructure for our workforce, and even deploy assets on 
time can suffer.  The Environmental Stewardship Flagship program recognizes 
commands who are fortifying those vital relationships through volunteer 
efforts that protect and restore the natural environment we all share.  
Congratulations to the winners and honorable mentions on these 
accomplishments.

6.  Released by VADM D. R. Smith, OPNAV N4.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//

