UNCLASSIFIED//

ROUTINE

R 051438Z APR 16

FM CNO WASHINGTON DC

TO NAVADMIN

BT
UNCLAS
NAVADMIN 085/16

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/APR//

SUBJ/MRS. SYBIL STOCKDALE OMBUDSMAN OF THE YEAR AWARD//

REF/A/DOC/OPNAVINST 1750.1G/2SEP2014//

AMPN/REF A is OPNAVINST 1750.1G, THE NAVY FAMILY OMBUDSMAN PROGRAM.//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN announces the annual Mrs. Sybil Stockdale Ombudsman of 
the Year Award nomination/selection process, and presentation requirements 
for Calendar Year 2016.

2.  This award was inspired by Mrs. Sybil Stockdale who set an unflagging 
example for her support to families of other POWs during the seven year 
internment in Southeast Asia of her husband, Vice Admiral James Bond 
Stockdale.  The Ombudsman of the Year Award is presented to four ombudsmen 
who have served their command and Navy families with selfless dedication and 
commitment to family readiness in the following categories:
    a.  Afloat command (Commander, U.S. Fleet Forces Command
(COMUSFLTFORCOM))
    b.  Afloat command (Commander, U.S. Pacific Fleet Command
(COMPACFLT))
    c.  Ashore command
    d.  Reserve command

3.  Criteria for Ombudsman of the Year:
    a.  Must have demonstrated the ability to effectively communicate between 
the Navy family and the command.
    b.  Must have maintained the highest standards of professionalism and 
confidentiality while providing a positive example for command members and 
families.
    c.  Must have facilitated and promoted a healthy sense of community among 
command families by assisting and supporting Navy families to include 
emergencies, mobilization, or deployment.
    d.  Must have demonstrated consistent compliance with training and 
required reports in accordance with reference (a).

4.  Eligibility requirements for Ombudsman of the Year:
    a.  Award nominees must be registered in the Ombudsman Registry, 
https://ombudsmanregistry.org, and have distinguished themselves in 
supporting Navy families.
    b.  Must have served as an Ombudsman in good standing for at least one 
year and embody the core values of the Ombudsman Program.

5.  The nomination package for the Ombudsman of the Year award shall consist 
of:
    a.  Cover Letter
    b.  Summary of action, not to exceed two pages, addressing each of the 
criterion set forth in paragraph 3.
    c.  Short biography of the nominee with photo included.
    d.  Letter of support from the Fleet and Family Support Center Director 
or Navy Operational Support Center (NOSC) validating Involvement in Ombudsman 
Assemblies and Advanced Training.
    e.  Additional supporting information (e.g., a letter of support for 
nomination from former Commanding Officers, Command Point of Contact, or 
Command Support Team; letters of appreciation presented by Commanding 
Officers or family members).

6.  Nomination process:
    a.  COMUSFLTFORCOM Ombudsman of the Year.  COMUSFLTFORCOM will nominate 
an Ombudsman from all deployable forces within Atlantic Fleet.
    b.  COMPACFLT Ombudsman of the Year.  COMPACFLT will nominate an 
Ombudsman from all deployable forces within the Pacific Fleet.
    c.  Navy Reserve Force Ombudsman of the Year.  Commander, Navy Reserve 
Force Command (COMNAVRESFOR) will nominate an Ombudsman from all Navy Reserve 
Units and NOSCs.
    d.  Navy Shore Ombudsman of the Year.  The Office of the Chief of Naval 
Operations (OPNAV) will nominate a shore (type 1 and type 6) Ombudsman from 
the following:  OPNAV direct report naval shore activities; COMUSFLTFORCOM; 
COMPACFLT; U.S. Naval Forces Europe; U.S. Naval Forces Africa; and Deputy 
Chief of Naval Operations, Manpower, Personnel, Training and Education (N1).

7.  Deadline:  Nomination packages shall be submitted to the appropriate 
organization, via the chain of command, not later than
31 May 2016.

8.  Recommendations for the four award winners will be forwarded to the Chief 
of Naval Operations (CNO) for endorsement as the final approving authority 
for the award.  The award recipients will be announced via NAVADMIN.

9.  CNO or his designated representative will present the award in September 
during an Ombudsman Appreciation event in Norfolk, VA.

10.  Additional information about the award process and procedures is located 
at www.cnic.navy.mil/OmbudsmanOfTheYear.

11.  POC is Ms. Renee Harris, CNIC Ombudsman Program Manager, at
(202)433-3165 or via email at renee.c.harris(at)navy.mil.

12.  Released by Vice Admiral R. L. Thomas, Director Navy Staff.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
