ROUTINE 
R 171959Z NOV 22 MID200080475819U 
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC 
TO NAVADMIN 
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC 
BT 
UNCLAS 
 
NAVADMIN 258/22 
 
PASS TO OFFICE CODES: 
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//DNS// 
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//DNS// 
MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC// 
 
SUBJ/2022-2023 NAVY INFLUENZA VACCINATION AND REPORTING POLICY// 
 
REF/A/DOC/DOD/13JUL2022// 
REF/B/MEMO/DHA/DHA-IPM/21AUG2020// 
REF/C/DOC/OFR/32 CFR PART 199.21/01DEC2016// 
REF/D/DOC/BUMED/07OCT2013// 
REF/E/CDC/MMWR/22JUL2022 
REF/F/MMQC-22-1438/23AUG2022 
 
NARR/REF A IS THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE INSTRUCTION (DODI) 6025.19 INDIVIDUAL 
MEDICAL READINESS PROGRAM, ADDRESSING RESPONSIBILITIES AND PROCEDURES FOR 
MONITORING AND MAINTAINING INDIVIDUAL MEDICAL READINESS.   
REF B IS THE DEFENSE HEALTH AGENCY PROCEDURAL INSTRUCTION (DHA-PI) 6025.34 
GUIDANCE FOR THE DOD INFLUENZA VACCINATION PROGRAM (IVP).   
REF C IS THE OFFICE OF THE FEDERAL REGISTRAR TITLE 32 OF THE CODE OF FEDERAL 
REGULATIONS PART 199.21 (32 CFR PART 199.21), CIVILIAN HEALTH AND MEDICAL 
PROGRAM OF THE UNIFORMED SERVICES (CHAMPUS) TRICARE PHARMACY BENEFITS 
PROGRAM.   
REF D IS THE BUREAU OF MEDICINE AND SURGERY INSTRUCTION (BUMEDINST) 6230.15B 
IMMUNIZATIONS AND CHEMOPROPHYLAXIS FOR THE PREVENTION OF INFECTIOUS 
DISEASES.   
REF E IS A WEEKLY CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL AND PREVENTION (CDC) MORBIDITY 
AND MORTALITY WEEKLY REPORT (MMWR) REPORT.   
REF F IS THE MEDICAL MATERIAL QUALITY CONTROL MESSAGE// 
 
POC/CDR PETER SEGUIN/BUMED FALLS CHURCH VA/(703) 681-9474/EMAIL: 
PETER.G.SEGUIN.MIL(AT)HEALTH.MIL// 
 
RMKS/1.  Influenza (flu) is a contagious viral respiratory illness, which can 
cause mild to severe illness resulting in hospitalization or death.  Flu has 
the potential to adversely impact Navy force readiness and mission execution. 
 
2.  Influenza Vaccination and Reporting 
    a.  Influenza Disease Prevention.  Vaccination is the primary method to 
reduce risk of influenza by enhancing force immunity.  Maintaining a clean 
work environment, good hygiene practices including cough/sneeze hygiene, and 
managing workforce exposure (e.g., social distancing, teleworking, and sick 
leave) are effective methods to reduce the risk of spreading influenza. 
    b.  Influenza Vaccine.  Two influenza vaccines, Northern Hemisphere (NH) 
and Southern Hemisphere (SH), are available based on service member location 
and timing requirements as described in reference (b).  The 2022-2023 
Department of Defense (DoD) influenza season vaccine supply will be comprised 
of injectable vaccines.  Intranasal vaccine will not be provided through the 
central ordering process. 
    c.  Influenza Vaccine Priority.  U.S. Navy ships, operational assets, and 
training commands have been identified by the DoD and Department of the Navy 
(DON) as vaccine priority groups for the 2022-2023 influenza season. 
    d.  Influenza Vaccine Ordering.  All Defense Health Agency (DHA) Military 
Treatment Facilities (MTFs) will follow the MMQC-22-1438 guidance instructing 
them to submit the influenza requirements for their MTFs and the Branch 
Health Clinics that they support into the U.S. Army Medical Materiel Agency 
ordering portal.  All Fleet, USMC units, and reserve commands will continue 
to submit their requirements in the Vaccine Information and Logistics System 
(VIALS).  VIALS is the online requisition system for seasonal influenza 
vaccine.  VIALS tracks requisitioned vaccine electronically via Military 
Standard Requisitioning and Issuing Procedure (MILSTRIP) from requisition to 
receipt.  The VIALS Web site is common access card enabled:   
https://gov_only.med.ds.osd.mil/int_code03/vials/. 
    e.  Operational Forces Support, Naval Medical Readiness Logistics Command 
(NMRLC), Detachment, Fort Detrick is responsible for ordering and 
distributing influenza vaccine for all Navy and Marine Corps activities.   
Additional quantities required must be coordinated with the VIALS helpdesk 
at: usn.detrick.navmedlogcomftdmd.list.vialhelp(AT)mail.mil. 
    f.  Influenza Vaccine Shipping.  All commands will verify their correct 
shipping address and point of contact information in VIALS to ensure prompt 
delivery. 
    g.  Influenza Vaccine Integrity 
        (1) Temperature Monitors.  All Influenza vaccine shipments include 
temperature monitors.  All monitors must be returned to the Defense Logistics 
Agency - Troop Support Medical (DLA-TSM) cold chain office after receipt per 
the included instructions and shipping materials. 
            (a) No Alarm Status.  The vaccine is ready for immediate use. 
            (b) Alarmed Status.  Do not administer vaccine.  Segregate the 
vaccine in the refrigerator with a sign saying "DO NOT USE," return 
temperature monitor to DLA-TSM, and await disposition. 
    h.  Influenza Vaccine Exercise.  Previous influenza seasons have been 
used to exercise and evaluate mass vaccination scenarios.  These coordinated 
mass vaccination campaigns provide rapid and efficient vaccinations to 
protect the maximum number of susceptible persons.  Process improvements are 
made to delivery and reporting procedures based on lessons learned.  Ensure 
masking, social distancing, group size limitations, and other appropriate 
precautions during any mass vaccination exercises, if undertaken, when 
appropriate. 
    i.  Vaccine Delivery.  Due to vaccine demand and manufacturer 
limitations, complete vaccine delivery may be delayed.  This delay will 
unintentionally test the ability to conduct rapid and complete mass 
vaccination exercises. 
    j.  Influenza Vaccination Compliance 
        (1) Navy Military Personnel.  The seasonal influenza vaccination is 
mandatory for all DoD uniformed personnel who are not medically or 
administratively exempt, per references (a), (b), and (d).  Any refusal to 
receive the influenza vaccine will constitute a failure to obey a lawful 
order and may be punishable under the Uniform Code of Military Justice and/or 
result in administrative action.  Prior to receiving the influenza vaccine, 
Navy Active and Reserve Component personnel will have access to healthcare 
providers to address questions or concerns with influenza 
vaccination.  Commands must consult with the servicing Staff Judge Advocate 
General for additional guidance on influenza vaccination non-compliance. 
        (2) Navy Civilian Personnel.  Influenza vaccination is required for 
all civilian healthcare personnel as per reference (b), and is strongly 
encouraged for all other Navy civilian employees. 
        (3) TRICARE Beneficiaries.  Reference (c) authorizes retail network 
pharmacies to administer the seasonal influenza vaccine.  TRICARE 
beneficiaries may receive influenza vaccinations with no co-pay at authorized 
retail network pharmacies.  Beneficiaries are encouraged to contact the 
pharmacy regarding age restrictions as some pharmacies do not administer the 
influenza vaccine to individuals younger than 18 years of age. 
    k.  Influenza Vaccination Reporting.  Active and Reserve Component Navy 
force vaccination administration compliance will be monitored via the Medical 
Readiness Reporting System (MRRS).  Designated command personnel will access 
MRRS to track their personnel to ensure compliance. 
        (1) Shore-based commands will request access to MRRS based on their 
unit identification code by submitting a system access authorization request 
available at:  //mrrs.dc3n.navy.mil/mrrs (note:  MRRS Web address is case 
sensitive).  Point of contact:  MRRS program office and e-mail:   
mrrspo(at)navy.mil (800) 537-4617 / (504) 697-7070/DSN:  647-7070.   
Ship-based commands may utilize Navy Medicine Online (NMO) or Shipboard Non-
Tactical Automated Data Processing Automated Medical System (SAMS) to 
populate MRRS. 
        (2) Commands must ensure that documentation of influenza vaccine 
administration is coded to accurately reflect the type of vaccine given. 
        (3) Afloat units will enter influenza immunizations into the 
Shipboard Automated Medical System / Theater Medical Information Program for 
subsequent transfer to MRRS. 
        (4) All personnel who receive the vaccination from a retail network 
pharmacy must provide documentation of vaccination no later than the next 
duty or drill day to ensure compliance is appropriately recorded in their 
electronic health records and MRRS.  The following information will need to 
be provided, at a minimum: date vaccine was administered, vaccine name or 
code, manufacturer, and lot number. 
        (5) Vaccination Timeline 
            (a) Due to the risk of infection transmission within the unit and 
impact on operations, it is imperative that the vaccine be given with as 
minimal delay as possible.  Active duty units have 72 hours (three business 
working days) following receipt of the vaccine to document, begin 
administering, and report vaccination.  The 72-hour requirement begins 
immediately only if the temperature monitor is in "no alarm" status upon 
receipt; if in "alarmed" status the timed requirement begins once / if the 
vaccine is cleared for use by DLA-TSM.  If the 72 hour requirement cannot be 
met, unit situation reports will be submitted to the respective Immediate 
Superior in Command and Type Commanders.  Situation reports are not required 
if the temperature monitor is in alarmed status and the unit is awaiting 
disposition from DLA-TSM. 
            (b) As Reserve Component Command schedules vary, NMRLC and DLA-
TSM will coordinate to make every effort for the vaccine to arrive the week 
of a drill weekend.  Units have one drill weekend following receipt of the 
vaccine to document, administer, and report vaccination if the temperature 
monitor is in a "no alarm" status.  If in "alarmed" status, the timed 
requirement begins once / if the vaccine is cleared for use by DLA-TSM. 
        (6) Per paragraph 2.i, uniformed member compliance must be tracked in 
MRRS.  If desired, installations and MTFs may also use the Navy Family 
Accountability and Assessment System (NFAAS) to conduct a Pandemic Influenza 
response exercise in conjunction with the seasonal influenza vaccine program. 
    l.  Navy Goals and Performance Standards 
        (1) To ensure force medical readiness before peak influenza season, 
all Navy operational units and Navy Medicine Readiness and Training Commands 
/ Units will administer the 2022-2023 influenza vaccination to exceed the 90 
percent vaccination goal by 15 December 2022 for Active and Reserve 
Components.  Complete vaccine access will be provided for all Navy family 
members (includes dependents, other beneficiaries, and DoN ivilians).  Active 
coordination between command leadership, public affairs officers, and medical 
personnel is necessary to achieve success. 
        (2) Influenza Vaccination Performance Standards.  The following goals 
will be monitored: 
            (a) Navy VIALS reports 100 percent of shipped vaccine received 
onboard by fleet and Navy units by 1 December 2022. 
           (b) MRRS reports 90 percent of Active and Reserve Component 
vaccinated by 15 December 2022.  Commands will coordinate with the servicing 
           MTF to align command-wide vaccinations with Navy vaccination 
goals.  Medical personnel at servicing MTFs will promptly report vaccinations 
in MRRS. 
    m.  Vaccine administration and Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID -19) 
         (1) There is no current contraindication for administration of the 
influenza vaccination during the COVID-19 pandemic and every effort should be 
made to deliver the vaccine as quickly as possible to eligible Service 
members. 
         (2) Personnel who meet criteria to receive a COVID-19 booster dose 
are highly encouraged to do so as soon as they are available consistent with 
instructions from the CDC and from supporting MTFs. 
 
3.  Released by Mr. Andrew S. Haeuptle, Director, Navy Staff.// 
 
BT 
#0001 
NNNN 
UNCLASSIFIED//
