UNCLASSIFIED//

ROUTINE

R 031620Z FEB 20 MID110000378711U

FM CNO WASHINGTON DC

TO NAVADMIN

INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC

BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 027/20

PASS TO OFFICE CODES:
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/FEB//

SUBJ/HOMETOWN AREA RECRUITING PROGRAM, OFFICER HOMETOWN AREA RECRUITING 
PROGRAM, BLUEJACKET HOMETOWN AREA RECRUITING PROGRAM AND SENIOR MINORITY 
ASSISTANCE TO RECRUITING PROGRAM.//

REF/A/DOC/BUPERS/12FEB09//

AMPN/REF A IS BUPERSINST 1150.1C, POLICIES AND ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURES FOR 
THE HOMETOWN AREA RECRUITING PROGRAM, OFFICER HOMETOWN AREA RECRUITING 
PROGRAM, BLUEJACKET HOMETOWN AREA RECRUITING PROGRAM, AND SENIOR MINORITY 
ASSISTANCE TO RECRUITING PROGRAM//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN announces the process and procedures that govern the 
Hometown Area Recruiting Program (HARP), Officer Hometown Area Recruiting 
Program (OHARP), Bluejacket Hometown Area Recruiting Program (BJHARP) and 
Senior Military Assistance To Recruiting Program (SEMINAR) programs.  In an 
era of Great Power Competition, these programs play a key role in the 
recruiting of the Sailors of tomorrow in this tightening labor market and 
provide a great opportunity to highlight the experiences a candidate can gain 
from the Navy.

2.  HARP, OHARP and BJHARP return outstanding Navy personnel to their 
hometowns to temporarily assist local recruiters in locating and enlisting or 
commissioning qualified individuals.  SEMINAR provides assistance to the Navy 
in its efforts to recruit more African American, Hispanic and Asian Pacific 
Islander applicants and to enhance the Navys image in these communities.

3.  HARP is a non-funded program in which enlisted personnel return to their 
hometowns for 12 days (beginning on Monday and ending on Friday the following 
week) to assist local recruiters by relating their Navy experiences to their 
peers.  Participants should be prepared to visit high schools, prior places 
of employment and community locations where peers gather to discuss Navy 
opportunities while wearing the uniform of the day.  Service Members who 
participate in the program may do so either on permissive, no- cost Temporary 
Additional Duty (TEMADD) orders or while on leave in conjunction with 
permanent change of station (PCS) orders.

4.  Blackout dates are the week of Thanksgiving, last 2 weeks of December and 
the first week of January.  During these dates, no HARP requests will be 
approved.

5.  Service Members requesting to participate in HARP Duty in conjunction 
with PCS orders shall submit HARP requests to Navy Recruiting Command 
(NAVCRUITCOM)(N1) 6-9 months prior to the desired date (before PCS orders are 
finalized).  NAVCRUITCOM (N1) shall submit all approved HARP requests to the 
Service Members detailer, who will place in the P-Text no-cost Temporary Duty 
to the Navy Recruiting District (NAVCRUITDIST)/Navy Talent Acquisition Group
(NAVTALACQGRU) the Service Member is assigned to, along with approved dates.  
Service Members will not be entitled to reimbursement for any travel, 
transportation, per diem or miscellaneous expenses connected with HARP duty.
Participants must obtain a NAVPERS 1070/613, Administrative Remarks, from the 
Station Leading Petty Officer (LPO)/Leading Chief Petty Officer (LCPO), 
signed by the commanding officer (CO) of the NAVCRUITDIST/NAVTALACQGRU where 
the Service Member was assigned, documenting the Service Members 
participation in the HARP program.
Upon reporting to the next duty station, such documentation will constitute 
the authority for this duty.

6.  OHARP returns Navy officers to their hometown areas for 14 to 90 days to 
assist officer recruiters in locating individuals for Navy officer programs.  
Participants should be prepared to accompany the NAVCRUITDISTs/NAVTALACQGRUs 
officer recruiters on visits to colleges and universities, centers of 
influence and community events.  They will wear the uniform of the day and 
will be expected to discuss Navy opportunities and career paths.

7.  BJHARP is a funded program in which outstanding junior enlisted personnel 
are given the opportunity to return to their hometowns for a minimum of 10 
working days.  Participants are expected to identify and assist recruiters in 
contacting potential prospects, provide names of referrals and accompany the 
recruiter on the referral visit.  Service Members who participate in the 
program do so on TEMADD orders.  Orders may be issued in conjunction with 
regular leave.

8.  The SEMINAR program was established to provide assistance to the Navy in 
its effort to recruit more African American, Hispanic and Asian/Pacific 
Islander applicants and to enhance Navys image in these communities.  SEMINAR 
temporarily returns highly qualified African American, Hispanic and 
Asian/Pacific Islander officers and senior enlisted personnel to their home 
communities for 20 days to meet with local influential community members and 
to discuss the vast educational, career and advancement opportunities the 
Navy offers.

9.  Additional Information:
    a.  Detailed requirements for each program are listed on the CNRC webpage 
and should be reviewed thoroughly by commands prior to 
HARP/BJHARP/OHARP/SEMINAR submission.  The webpage provides topic- specific 
information such as:
       (1) An overview of the programs
       (2) Where to find the forms for program participation and submission
    b.  For information regarding HARP/BJHARP/OHARP/SEMINAR:
        (1) Visit MyNavy Portal at https://my.navy.mil
        (2) Select *Quick Links*
        (3) Select *NRC*, this will direct you to
            https://www.cnrc.navy.mil/
        (4) Under the CNRC webpage select *NRC Links*
        (5) Select *HARP/BJHARP/OHARP/SEMINAR*

10.  Point of contact is Mr. Terry T. Black, Program Manager, at
(901) 874-9549/DSN 882 or via e-mail at terry.a.black(at)navy.mil.

11.  Released by Vice Admiral John B. Nowell, Jr, N1.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//

