CLASSIFICATION: UNCLASSIFIED//
ROUTINE
R 171126Z MAY 23 MID120000089057U
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
CMC WASHINGTON DC
COMDT COGARD WASHINGTON DC
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC
BT
UNCLAS
 
NAVADMIN 114/23

MSGID/NAVADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N2N6/MAY//

SUBJ/2023 NAVAL INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY AWARDS SOLICITATION//

REF/A/DOC/OPNAV/06DEC17//
REF/B/DOC/COMNAVIFORES/21DEC18//

NARR/REF A IS OPNAVINST 1650.26E, NAVAL INTELLIGENCE AWARDS PROGRAM.
REF B IS COMNAVIFORESINST 1650.4P, POLICY AND PROCEDURES GOVERNING 
MILITARY AWARDS AND RECOGNITION PROGRAM.//
POC/CIV/NIA-N1/EMAIL: NAVINTELCOMMUNITYAWARDS(AT)US.NAVY.MIL//

RMKS/1.  Per reference (a) and (b), the Naval Intelligence Awards 
Program recognizes excellence and outstanding achievement in Naval 
Intelligence and covers recognition details for each award.  This 
NAVADMIN solicits nominations on accomplishments from Calendar Year 
2022 (1 January 2022 through 31 December 2022) for consideration.  
Submissions are due by 31 July 2023.
    a.  Rear Admiral Thomas A. Brooks Intelligence Junior Officer of 
the Year Award recognizes junior officers for their leadership, 
performance, special accomplishments, and overall contribution to 
command efficiency, morale, and welfare while serving on both sea and 
shore duty.  Active and Reserve Component Naval Intelligence Officers 
(183X/683X) O-1 through O-3 are eligible.  Two Active or Reserve 
Component junior officers will be selected; one each for the sea duty 
and shore duty categories.
    b.  Commander Dan F. Shanower Intelligence Specialist of the Year 
Award recognizes Intelligence Specialists for their performance, 
leadership, special accomplishments, and overall contribution to 
command efficiency, morale, and welfare. Active and Reserve Component 
Intelligence Specialists in pay grades E-1 through E-5 are eligible to 
compete for the Junior Intelligence Specialist of the Year award. 
Active and Reserve Component Intelligence Specialists in pay grade E-
6, including those frocked to E-6 during the eligibility period, are 
eligible to compete for the Senior Intelligence Specialist of the Year 
award.  A total of four Active or Reserve Component Intelligence 
Specialists will be selected; one junior and one senior Intelligence 
Specialist of the Year
    c.  Vice Admiral Rufus L. Taylor Award for Leadership recognizes 
leadership from deserving Active or Reserve Component officer, 
enlisted, or civilian personnel who exemplify excellence and 
exceptional dedication to duty within the Naval Intelligence 
Community.  Active and Reserve Component Naval Intelligence Officers 
(183X/683X) in grades O-4 through O-6, Intelligence Chief Warrant 
Officers (CWO) (783X) in grades CWO-3 through CWO-5, Intelligence 
Specialists in grades E-7 through E-9, and civilians GS-13 through GS-
15 (or equivalent) are eligible. Two candidates will be selected for 
this award; one Active or civilian candidate, and one Reserve 
Component candidate.
    d.  Vice Admiral Rufus L. Taylor Award for Excellence in 
Intelligence Instruction recognizes Intelligence instructors who 
embody the time-honored principles which Vice Admiral Taylor 
exemplified throughout his career:  desire for professional knowledge, 
intellectual curiosity, initiative, enthusiasm, ability to command 
respect and motivate others, devotion to duty, effective communication 
skills, and personal and intellectual integrity.  Active and Reserve 
Component U.S. Navy and U.S. Marine Corps service members serving as 
instructors, faculty, or staff at Information Warfare Training Command 
(IWTC) Virginia Beach and IWTC San Diego are eligible. Two candidates 
will be selected; one each from IWTC Virginia Beach and IWTC San 
Diego.
    e.  Rear Admiral Edwin T. Layton Award for Leadership and 
Mentorship recognizes outstanding leadership and mentorship in the 
furtherance of Naval Intelligence performance.  Active and Reserve 
Component Naval Intelligence Officers (183X/683X) in grades O-4 
through O-6, Intelligence CWOs (783X) in grades CWO-3 through CWO-5, 
and Intelligence Specialists in grades E-6 through E-9 are eligible.  
There is no set number of awards to be given each year.
    f.  Herman Dworkin Award for Maritime Analytic Excellence 
recognizes a civilian or military analyst working maritime issues who 
exemplifies the work ethic and attitude of Mr. Dworkin:  analytic 
expertise, strength of character, initiative, industriousness, and 
exactitude.  Active and Reserve Component Naval Intelligence Officers 
(183X/683X) in grades O-3 through O-5, Intelligence CWOs (783X) in 
grades CWO-2 through CWO-5, and civilians GS-12 through GS-14 (or 
equivalent) are eligible.  Nominees must have at least ten years of 
experience in the field of maritime intelligence analysis and be 
currently analytically active.  One candidate will be selected for 
this award.

2. Nominations will be provided through 
https://navyintel.yello.co/app/collect/event/8LSCBOsxzBNk7rgqtTm0Tg 
and must be unclassified.
    a.  Do not include social security numbers or other sensitive 
Personally -Identifiable Information (PII).
    b.  Do not include fitness reports/evaluations or awards in 
nomination packages.
    c.  Incomplete packages or packages failing to meet all guidance 
as outlined in this message and reference (a) will not be considered.
    d.  Classified nomination packages will not be accepted.

3.  All packages must be submitted no later than 31 July 2023.  Late 
submissions will not be accepted.

4.  Released by VADM Jeffrey E. Trussler, Deputy Chief of Naval 
Operations for Information Warfare, OPNAV N2N6.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
CLASSIFICATION: UNCLASSIFIED//

