UNCLASSIFIED//

ROUTINE

R 082109Z FEB 21 MID600050234010U

FM CNO WASHINGTON DC

TO NAVADMIN

INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC

BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 031/21

MSGID/NAVADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N4/FEB//

SUBJ/NAVY-WIDE DISTRIBUTED WORKFORCE DATA CALL//

REF/A/DOC/DODINST 1035.01/4APR12//

AMPN/REF A IS DOD TELEWORK POLICY//
POC/GREENE, LUKE/CAPT/OPNAV N46/TEL:  703-695-9141/EMAIL:
LUKE.B.GREENE@NAVY.MIL//

RMKS/1.  For nearly a year, the Navy has been adapting legacy work routines 
in response to Coronavirus 2019.  At all levels of the Navy, we were forced 
to demonstrate resilience and agility as we focused on protecting our 
workforce.  Most notably, we expanded the use of telework and remote work 
while continuing to accomplish our diverse missions.  As we look beyond the 
current pandemic, we must consider instituting permanent changes to our work 
routines based on the principles outlined in reference (a) and the lessons we 
recently learned.  These deliberate changes will be calculated to provide the 
most benefit to the Navy and include improved recruiting and retention, 
improved employee experience, a more resilient workforce and reduced shore 
infrastructure requirements.

2.  To capture necessary data and inform future decisions, the Navy will 
conduct a series of workforce data calls.  The initial data call is directed 
at first -line supervisors and will be distributed, with detailed 
instructions, by the Assistant Secretary of the Navy (Manpower and Reserve 
Affairs) by 5 February 2021.  This first-line supervisor data call is 
distinct from an IT data call that will be conducted by N2/N6, but it 
supports the same effort.  Maximum participation in this data call is 
critical to support the data-informed decisions which will shape the way we 
work.  This message is provided to maximize awareness of the upcoming data 
call and emphasize the need for participation.

3.  Released by VADM R. L. Williamson, N4.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//


