UNCLASSIFIED//

ROUTINE

R 302051Z AUG 21 MID200001087696U

FM CNO WASHINGTON DC

TO NAVADMIN
CMC WASHINGTON DC
COMDT COGARD WASHINGTON DC

INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC

BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 195/21

MSGID/NAVADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N2N6/AUG//

SUBJ/FISCAL YEAR 2021 COPERNICUS AWARD NOMINATION// POC/FISCHETTI/CIV/AFCEA 
EDUCATIONAL FOUNDATION/TEL:  (703) 631-6147
/EMAIL:  EDFOUNDATION(AT)AFCEA.ORG//

RMKS/1.  The Copernicus Award recognizes individual contributions to Naval 
Information Warfare.  The award is sponsored by Armed Forces Communication 
and Electronics Association (AFCEA) International and the United States Naval 
Institute (USNI).

2.  Award criteria and eligibility.  Fiscal year 2021 nominees must have made 
a specific, demonstrable contribution to the advancement of Information 
Warfare.  Contributions can be operational or technical in nature. They may 
originate from operational, doctrinal, financial, training acquisitions, or 
other dimensions of information systems.  The contribution should involve 
exceptional initiative, leadership, and insight within the nominee area of 
expertise.  All U.S. Navy, U.S. Marine Corps, U.S. Coast Guard, and Civil 
Service personnel are eligible for nomination.  Up to 30 awardees will be 
selected.  Each nominating command is limited to two nominees.  No contractor 
or team (more than one person) nominations will be accepted.  Nominations 
must be unclassified.

3.  Nominations and presentation.  The awardees will be selected from 
nominations received from U.S. Navy, U.S. Marine Corps, and U.S. Coast Guard 
(including Joint/North Atlantic Treaty Organization) commands, afloat and 
ashore.  Nominations must be on letterhead, be submitted by email in PDF 
format, and must not contain any Personally Identifiable Information.  
Nominations for commanding officers or officers-in-charge must be signed by 
their Immediate Superior in Command.  Flag endorsements and letters of 
recommendation are neither required nor desired.  The nomination template and 
additional nomination package information, as well as the most up-to-date 
point of contact information can be found at https://www.afcea.org/site/sites 
/default/files/files/FY21CopernicusTemplate.pdf, and award information can be 
found at http://www.afcea.org/site/awards/copernicus.  Nominations must be 
submitted no later than 1 November 2021 to edfoundation(at)afcea.org.  Late 
nominations will not be considered.

4.  AFCEA International and USNI will make the final selections.  The Deputy 
Chief of Naval Operations for Information Warfare will announce the awardees 
via NAVADMIN.  The annual Copernicus Awards ceremony will be held at the 
AFCEA International/USNI WEST 2022 Conference in San Diego, California at the 
San Diego Convention Center.  If awardees are unable to attend the ceremony 
in San Diego, the awards will also be presented at the AFCEA International 
TechNet Cyber Conference in Baltimore, Maryland at the Baltimore Convention 
Center.

5.  Released by VADM Jeffrey E. Trussler, Deputy Chief of Naval Operations 
for Information Warfare, OPNAV N2N6.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//

