UNCLASSIFIED// 
ROUTINE 
R 251653Z FEB 22 MID200001507886U 
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC 
TO NAVADMIN 
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC 
BT 
UNCLAS 
 
NAVADMIN 045/22 
 
MSGID/NAVADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N4/FEB// 
 
SUBJ//NAVY INTERIM IMPLEMENTATION GUIDANCE FOR LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICERS 
SAFETY ACT PROGRAM// 
 
REF/A/DOC/SECNAV/19JAN17// 
REF/B/DOC/TITLE 18, U.S. CODE, SECTION 926B// 
REF/C/DOC/TITLE 18, U.S. CODE, SECTION 926C// 
REF/D/DOC/DOD/13FEB2014// 
REF/E/DOC/TITLE 10 U.S. CODE, SECTION 807(B)// 
 
NARR//REF A IS SECNAVINST 5580.3, DEPARTMENT OF THE NAVY LAW ENFORCEMENT 
OFFICERS SAFETY ACT PROGRAM, 19 JANUARY 2017.   
REF B IS TITLE 18, U.S. CODE, SECTION 926B, CARRYING OF CONCEALED FIREARMS BY 
QUALIFIED LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICERS.   
REF C IS TITLE 18, U.S. CODE, SECTION 926C, CARRYING OF CONCEALED FIREARMS BY 
QUALIFIED RETIRED/SEPARATED LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICERS.  
REF D IS DOD INSTRUCTION 5525.12, IMPLEMENTATION OF THE AMENDED LAW 
ENFORCEMENT OFFICERS SAFETY ACT OF 2004, AS AMENDED FEBRUARY 13, 2014.   
REF E IS TITLE 10 U.S. CODE, SECTION 807(B), UNIFORM CODE OF MILITARY JUSTICE 
(UCMJ).// 
 
POC/CWO5 MUEHLHAUSER, THOMAS D/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N4I62/ 
TEL:  (757) 836-5288/EMAIL:  THOMAS.D.MUEHLHAUSER.MIL(AT)US.NAVY.MIL// 
 
RMKS/1.  This message announces updated Navy interim guidance for 
implementation of the Law Enforcement Officers Safety Act (LEOSA) program per 
references (a) through (e). 
 
2.  Background.  The National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) of 2013 
expanded LEOSA 2004 coverage to include individuals who are, or were, 
authorized to apprehend under Article 7b of the UCMJ (reference (e)).  The 
NDAA of 2013 thus applies to Department of the Navy (DON) personnel, under 
reference (d), who are serving or have served in a law enforcement capacity, 
as defined by references (a) through (d). 
 
3.  Policy 
    a.  It is Navy policy that LEOSA credentials may be issued to current, 
separated, and retired Navy personnel who meet the criteria described in 
references (a) through (d). 
    b.  Personnel issued LEOSA credentials are subject to all restrictions 
and limitations contained in references (a) and (d), including: 
        (1) LEOSA credentials do not permit the carry of concealed privately-
owned weapons on federal installations (unless approved by the installation 
commander). 
        (2) LEOSA credentials do not confer upon any separated law 
enforcement officer any rights or privileges accorded to a currently serving 
law enforcement officer. 
    c.  Issued LEOSA credentials will immediately become invalid if an 
individual no longer meets any of the requirements for eligibility in this 
NAVADMIN or references (a) through (d). 
    d.  The Navy will not reimburse any cost associated with the 
qualification requirements contained in references (a) through (d) and this 
NAVADMIN, or provide firearms, ammunition, or firearms qualification testing 
for separated law enforcement officers. 
    e.  This message will serve as interim policy guidance for implementation 
of the Navy LEOSA program and will cancel upon release of update to reference 
OPNAVINST 5580.XX, Law Enforcement. 
 
4.  Responsibilities 
    a.  Director, Installations Division (OPNAV N4I) will promulgate policy 
regarding implementation of the Navy LEOSA program and updates to policy in 
accordance with any change to references (a) through (d).  LEOSA Program 
Management (PM) responsibilities have been delegated to Commander, Navy 
Installations Command, Force Protection (CNIC N34). 
    b.  CNIC N34 will: 
        (1) Per references (a) through (d), act as the PM for the LEOSA 
program, providing administration and oversight of LEOSA credential issuance 
for qualified law enforcement officers (QLEO) and qualified retired/separated 
law enforcement officers (QRLEO). 
        (2) Provide additional implementation guidance, as required. 
        (3) Issue photographic LEOSA credentials to qualified QLEOs for a 
period not to exceed five years. 
        (4) Issue qualified QRLEOs non-expiring photographic LEOSA 
credentials. 
        (5) Per references (a) and (b), maintain data associated with QLEOs 
who have been issued the photographic LEOSA credential. 
        (6) In accordance with references (a) and (c), maintain data 
associated with QRLEOs who have been issued the photographic credential. 
        (7) Recover LEOSA credentials issued to QLEOs upon separation from 
law enforcement duties and for disqualifying performance or conduct that 
would result in a member losing authority to carry a firearm. 
        (8) Ensure that the QLEO and QRLEO, upon issuance of the LEOSA 
credential, are aware of all LEOSA credential restrictions and limitations 
contained in references (a) and (d), including: 
            (a) The LEOSA credential does not grant any authority to act on 
behalf of the Department of the Navy or to exercise any law enforcement 
authority. 
             (b) To carry a concealed firearm under LEOSA authority, the QLEO 
must carry, on their person, the issued LEOSA credential, a valid common 
access card, and weapons qualification documentation issued by the DON that 
is current within 12 months. 
             (c) To carry a concealed firearm under LEOSA authority, the 
QRLEO must carry, on their person, the issued LEOSA credential as well as 
qualification documentation issued by the State in which the QRLEO resides or 
by a certified firearms instructor within the QRLEOs state of residence, 
qualified to conduct a firearms qualification test for active duty officers 
within that state, that is current within 12 months and meets the 
requirements of reference (c). 
             (d) The LEOSA credential is invalid if the credential holder is 
found to be carrying a firearm while under the influence of alcohol or any 
other intoxicating or hallucinatory drug or substance. 
             (e) Issuance of the LEOSA credential does not grant an exemption 
from federal and state statutes and regulations that apply to the carry of 
firearms (to include those relating to the carry of firearms on military 
installations, commercial aircraft, or within state or federal facilities). 
    c.  QLEO applicants will submit their application to their endorsing 
official (commanding officer (CO) or first O-6/GS-15 within their chain of 
command) for endorsement.  The CO may delegate this endorsement authority to 
their respective security officer (Limited Duty Officer (649X), Chief Warrant 
Officer (749X), or security officer equivalent (such as chief of police, 
installation security director, or installation security department head). 
    d.  The endorsing official will: 
        (1) Endorse all applicants who meet the criteria described in 
references (a) through (d), within 30 days of submittal.  If the applicant 
does not meet the criteria of references (a) through (d), the endorsing 
official will issue a negative endorsement in writing, stating the specific 
requirements the applicant does not meet.  Applicants will be advised of a 
negative endorsement by the endorsing official.  Negative endorsements will 
be sent to the LEOSA PM for tracking. 
        (2) Return the endorsement to the applicant for submittal to the Navy 
LEOSA Program Manager. 
    e.  Neither the endorsement or the issuance of a LEOSA credential 
authorizes the applicant to carry a privately owned firearm onto the 
installation. 
 
5.  LEOSA Credential Requirements 
    a.  QLEO Credentials.  To qualify for the QLEO LEOSA credential, an 
individual must be an employee of the Navy who meets all of the criteria 
outlined in references (a), (b), and (d), and must: 
        (1) Not be prohibited by Federal law from possessing or receiving a 
firearm. 
         (2) Be authorized by Federal law to engage in or supervise the 
prevention, detection, investigation, or prosecution of, or the incarceration 
of any person for, any violation of law, and has statutory powers of arrest 
or authority to apprehend pursuant to reference (e). 
         (3) Be a rated Master-at-Arms, Limited Duty Officer (649X), Chief 
Warrant Officer (749X) in the active or reserve component or a current Navy 
civilian employee in the GS-0083 or GS-1810 career series (having completed 
Navy Federal Law Enforcement Training Center training or approved equivalent 
at the time of service). 
         (4) Be authorized by the Navy to carry a firearm. 
         (5) Meet the Navys qualification standards in the use of a firearm 
of the same type (e.g., revolver or semiautomatic pistol) as the privately-
owned concealed firearm. 
         (6) Not be the subject of any disciplinary action by the Navy that 
could result in suspension or loss of law enforcement authority. 
         (7) Provide positive endorsement from the appropriate endorsing 
official or designee. 
         (8) Not be under the influence of drugs, alcohol or another 
intoxicating or hallucinatory substances while armed.  Failure to comply with 
this requirement may result in a revocation of LEOSA credentials. 
         (9) Agree to report lost or stolen LEOSA credentials to the Navy 
LEOSA Program Manager and the Navy LEOSA Contractor. 
    b.  QRLEO credentials.  To qualify for the QRLEO LEOSA credential, an 
individual must meet all the criteria outlined in references (a), (c) and 
(d), and must: 
         (1) Demonstrate that he/she separated in good standing from Navy 
service and upon separation, was a rated Master-At-Arms, Limited Duty Officer 
(649X), or Chief Warrant Officer (749X) in the active or reserve component or 
a Navy civilian employee in the GS-0083 or GS-1810 career series. 
         (2) Demonstrate that, prior to separation, he/she served in the 
military rating or designator, or civilian occupational series identified in 
subparagraph 5b(1), for an aggregate of 10 years or more, as described in 
reference (c).  Time spent in a military rating other than Master-at-Arms, 
but performing duties in a law enforcement position using the Navy Enlisted 
Classification 9545, will count towards the 10-year requirement.  Proof of 
service under the 9545 NEC must be properly documented using the Navy 
Evaluation Report and Counseling Record. 
         (3) Not be prohibited by Federal law from possessing or receiving a 
firearm. 
         (4) Not be under the influence of drugs, alcohol or other 
intoxicating or hallucinatory substances while armed.  Failure to comply with 
this requirement may result in a revocation of credentials. 
         (5) Not have been officially found by a qualified medical 
professional employed by the DoD to be unqualified for reasons related to 
mental health, and as a result of this finding will not be issued the LEOSA 
credential. 
         (6) Not have entered into an agreement with his or her prior DoD 
component, acknowledging an inability to carry a firearm for reasons relating 
to mental health. 
         (7) Agree to report lost or stolen LEOSA credentials to the Navy 
LEOSA Program Manager and the Navy LEOSA Contractor. 
 
6.  QLEOs and QRLEOs must download, complete and submit the LEOSA credential 
application (JNAVMAR 5580/1) and all other required documentation 
at https://leosanavy.com/, to complete the request for LEOSA credentials. 
 
7.  Endorsing officials will notify Navy LEOSA PM via email at 
leosa.fct@navy.mil when recommending revocation of a 926B LEOSA credential 
from a previously qualified member. 
 
8.  Released by VADM R. L. Williamson, N4.// 
 
BT 
#0001 
NNNN 
UNCLASSIFIED//
