UNCLASSIFIED//

ROUTINE

R 211841Z JUL 20 MID510001464264U

FM CNO WASHINGTON DC

TO NAVADMIN

INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC

BT
UNCLAS
NAVADMIN 204/20
PASS TO OFFICE CODES:
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N7//
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N7//

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N71/JUL//

SUBJ/LOW-RESIDENCY GRADUATE EDUCATION PROGRAM//

REF/A/DOC/OPNAV INSTRUCTION 1520.23C-CH3//
REF/B/DOC/DOD INSTRUCTION 1322.10//

AMPN/REF A IS NAVY DIRECTIVE ON GRADUATE EDUCATION. 
REF B IS DOD INSTRUCTION 1322.10, POLICY ON GRADUATE EDUCATION FOR MILITARY 
OFFICERS.//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN announces the Low-Residency Graduate Education Program 
(LGEP) pilot for Academic Year (AY) 2020 and provides guidance for 
applications.

2.  LGEP provides naval officers in paygrades O-2 to O-5 with a Navy-funded 
graduate degree opportunity in strategy, management and international 
relations through a low-residency delivery model at selected regionally 
accredited partner universities or colleges.  LGEP fulfills the requirement 
for in-residence graduate education for promotion to O-7.

3.  The LGEP pilot program will offer studies that are designed to fit into 
shore duty tours, allowing officers with compressed career paths to stay 
close to the waterfront or flight line while earning a Master's degree. LGEP 
study programs range from 10-24 months at partner universities that may 
include Old Dominion University, William and Mary, American University, Johns 
Hopkins University, University of California Los Angeles, University of 
California San Diego, University of Washington, and the Naval Postgraduate 
School.

4.  Participants will remain at their duty stations and spend limited time on 
campus, completing the remainder of the course material online or via phone. 
Additional LGEP information and frequently asked questions are provided at 
https://www.navy.mil/local/clo/.

5.  The application window will close 2 August 2020.  Up to 80 participants 
will be selected for AY 2020.  Target applicants are due-course warrior 
scholars who display all the qualities of dedicated career officers who 
aspire to command.  The number of LGEP participants may expand in subsequent 
years.

6.  Qualified candidates will meet the following prerequisite education and 
work experience criteria: O-2 to O-5, a Bachelor's degree from an accredited 
college or university, and a history of strong academic performance 
demonstrated by college transcripts.

7.  To apply, candidates must submit the following information to 
OCLO@navy.mil by 2 August 2020: command endorsement, applicant biography, 
academic transcripts from all previous undergraduate education and/or higher 
education including transfer credits, a statement of purpose explaining how 
the applicant would use the education to benefit the Department of the Navy, 
and a list of the applicant's top five preferred study programs.  GRE/GMAT 
scores are not required.

8.  Applicants will be matched with school programs based on factors 
including geographic location, career progression, prioritized student 
program preference, and individual school graduate program academic 
acceptance criteria.

9.  Applicants will first apply to LGEP and, if selected, then go through an 
expedited application process with the selected partner school.  Unofficial 
copies of transcripts will be accepted for the initial application to LGEP, 
but students will need to submit official transcripts and additional 
information to their prospective university?s graduate program.

10. Per references (a) and (b), students selected for LGEP will incur a 
concurrent service obligation of three times the number of months spent in 
the program, up to a maximum of a three-year obligation. The service 
obligation will commence upon completion of or withdrawal from the program, 
and will be incurred whether or not the member successfully completes LGEP.

11. LGEP selectees will be announced by 13 August 2020. This program will be 
centrally funded, covering tuition, required books, travel, and materials.  
Selected participants will be responsible for computer access to the Internet 
to participate in online assignments and web-enabled interactions with 
instructors and other students.

12.  Points of contact:
     a.  Dr. Kendy Vierling at (703)254-9110/email:
kendy.k.vierling(at)navy.mil.
     b.  Specific application and program information is provided at 
https://www.navy.mil/local/clo/.
     c.  Submit applications to OCLO@navy.mil via encrypted email or the SAFE 
tool at https://safe.apps.mil/.

13.  This message will remain in effect until superseded or canceled, 
whichever occurs first.

14. Released by Vice Admiral S. B. Munsch, Deputy Chief on Naval Operations 
for Warfighting Development (N7)//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
