ROUTINE 
R 161754Z SEP 22 MID600052304702U 
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC 
TO NAVADMIN 
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC 
 
BT 
UNCLAS
NAVADMIN 208/22
PASS TO OFFICE CODES: 
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1// 
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1// 
MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC//SEP// 
 
SUBJ/CALL FOR FY-24 COMMAND MASTER CHIEF AND COMMAND SENIOR CHIEF SCREEN 
BOARD MEMBERSHIP AND APPLICATIONS// 
 
REF/A/DOC/BUPERS/29APR20// 
REF/B/DOC/OPNAV/16JUL2021// 
 
NARR/REF A IS BUPERSINST 1401.5C, SUPPLEMENTAL GUIDANCE FOR U.S. NAVY 
SELECTION BOARDS. 
REF B IS OPNAVINST 1306.2K, COMMAND SENIOR ENLISTED LEADER PROGRAM.// 
 
RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN announces guidance for the Fiscal Year 2024 
(FY-24) Command Master Chief (CMDCM) and Command Senior Chief 
(CMDCS) Screen Board.  The FY-24 CMDCM and CMDCS Screen Board is 
scheduled for 30 January 2023.  The deadline to apply for board 
membership is 01 November 2022.  The deadline to apply to the 
CMDCM/CMDCS program in order to be considered by the board is also 
01 November 2022. 
 
2.  Board Membership.  Command Master Chiefs serving/served at the 
Flag or General Officer level are encouraged to apply for board 
membership.  Command Master Chiefs serving at the O5 or O6 level are 
encouraged to apply to be recorders for the board. 
    a.  Prior to submitting an application, review reference (a). 
    b.  In addition to membership criteria contained in reference 
(a) and on the application form (NAVPERS 1400/2), the following also 
applies to selection board members: 
       (1) Must not have a relative or personal relationship 
defined in reference (a) serving on the same board in any capacity. 
       (2) All Navy relatives (active-duty or reserve) must be 
listed on the application form along with their rank/rate, even if 
not board eligible. 
       (3) Must not have been a member of the same board in the 
previous year. 
       (4) Must not be the subject of an investigation of any kind. 
       (5) If under care for any severe medical issues, the member 
will consult with a treating physician regarding the possibility of 
travel in the time frame indicated.  The medical provider is not 
required to endorse the member's application. 
    c.  The application form (NAVPERS 1400/2) can be downloaded from 
https://www.mnp.navy.mil/group/advancement-and-promotion/active- 
duty-enlisted.  Click on the *Information for Board Members and 
Recorders* tab. 
    d.  The signed application must be endorsed by the Commanding 
Officer (CO) of the applicant and forwarded directly to the 
Director, Command Senior Enlisted Leader Management Office (DCSELMO) 
via email at cselboard(at)us.navy.mil. 
    e.  Board membership will be held in the strictest confidence. 
Once an application is submitted, a policy of non-disclosure has 
been ordered by Deputy Chief of Navy Personnel (DCNP).  Do not 
discuss applications or selection with anyone other than the CO, 
reporting senior, or board support personnel.  Failure to adhere to 
this policy is a direct violation of the Uniform Code of Military 
Justice and will result in removal from the board and possible 
administrative or disciplinary action by DCNP. 
    f.  Careful consideration should be given to a nominees 
application and availability to serve as a selection board member. 
CO concurrence is required.  Do not recommend personnel under an 
investigation of any kind or those with severe medical issues.  If 
the CO initiates or becomes aware of an investigation after the 
initial nomination is submitted, notify the points of contact below 
immediately.  COs and applicants should understand once selected, 
the member is under official orders to the board and requests for 
removal from board duties will not be granted except in extreme 
cases as specified in reference (a). 
 
3.  Screen Board Eligibility Criteria.  Reference (b) contains the 
eligibility requirements to apply for the CMDCM and CMDCS screen 
board with the following updates: 
    a.  Active Component E-9 personnel will not have less than 16 
years or greater than 28 years total Time in Service (TIS) as of 31 
December 2022. 
    b.  Active Component E-8 personnel will not have less than 16 
years or greater than 23 years total TIS as of 31 December 2022. 
    c.  Reserve Component Selected Reserve (SELRES) drill with pay 
and Training and Administration of the Reserve (TAR): 
       (1) TAR E-9 personnel will not have less than 16 years or 
greater than 28 years total TIS as of 31 December 2022.  Total 
Active Federal Military Service (TAFMS) will be used. 
       (2) SELRES E9 personnel will not have less than 16 years of 
Total Qualifying Years of Service or greater than 28 years Length of 
Service (LOS) as of 31 December 2022 (indicated in Navy Reserve 
Readiness Module (NRRM).  To maintain distributable inventory and 
community health controls, SELRES who are on definite recall orders 
are not eligible for conversion unless they will complete orders by 
31 December 2022.  SELRES who are mobilized remain eligible. 
       (3) TAR E-8 personnel will not have less than 16 years or 
greater than 23 years total TIS as of 31 December 2022.  TAFMS will 
be used. 
       (4) SELRES E-8 personnel will not have less than 16 years of 
Total Qualifying Years of Service or greater than 23 years LOS as of 
31 December 2022 (indicated in NRRM).  To maintain distributable 
inventory and community health controls, SELRES who are on definite 
recall orders are not eligible for conversion unless they will 
complete orders by 31 December 2022.  SELRES who are mobilized 
remain eligible. 
    d.  TIS waivers within one year of the limits established above, 
and operational waivers for non-attendance of the Senior Enlisted 
Academy (SEA) will be considered on a case-by-case basis.  Submit 
waivers in standard memorandum format to the DCSELMO, via the 
applicable Force Master Chief or direct-report CMDCM, for approval 
or disapproval.  Waivers outside the one year TIS limit will be 
submitted via the same process, with final approval or disapproval 
by Director, Military Personnel Plans and Policy (OPNAV N13).  All 
waivers must be submitted to the DCSELMO by 01 October 2022, to 
allow time for final adjudication and inclusion in a candidate 
package to the board. 
    e.  All TAR and SELRES candidates (including closed loop ratings 
and TAR serving at Active Component Commands) must obtain the Navy 
Reserve Force Master Chief's endorsement prior to submission. 
Candidate packages are due to the Office of the Chief of Navy 
Reserve, Force Master Chief NLT 17 October 2022 to ensure 
endorsement and total service calculations are validated in advance 
of the 01 November 2022 deadline. 
 
4.  For record review and communication with the CMDCM and CMDCS 
screen board, submit packages via encrypted e-mail to 
cselboard(at)us.navy.mil.  Do not use the electronic submission of 
selection board documents (ESSBD) to submit packages.  The full name 
of the candidate must be on all pages of the package.  The package 
requirements contained in reference (b), are modified as follows, 
and will only include: 
    a.  Cover letter.  The cover letter must include the board 
number (found below) with branch class in parentheses, i.e. Active 
Component, SELRES, TAR or closed loop.  In the body of the cover 
letter provide Service Member's full social security number, name, 
work and personal phone numbers, and work and personal email 
addresses. 
    b.  Navy Reserve Force Master Chief's endorsement discussed 
above, for all TAR and SELRES candidates (including closed loop 
ratings and TAR serving at Active Component Commands). 
    c.  Approved TIS or SEA waivers discussed above. 
    d.  Conditional release for all nuclear-trained and all non- 
nuclear submarine ratings, as outlined in reference (b). 
    e.  Letter of certification by the commanding officer that the 
candidate meets all the qualification requirements of reference (b) 
and is recommended for the program. 
    f.  Copy of NAVPERS 1306-95, will all signatures completed. 
    g.  NAVPERS 1306/7, Enlisted Personnel Action Request. 
    h.  Candidate statement, using NAVPERS 1070/613 Administrative 
Remarks, as outlined in reference (b). 
    i.  Letter of endorsement from the applicable Force Master 
Chief, or direct-report CMDCM if not aligned under a Force Master 
Chief.  Only one endorsement letter is authorized per candidate 
package. 
    j.  If the Navy Enlisted Classification code 8SEA is not in the 
candidate Personnel Data Summary (PSR), a copy of the graduation 
certificate from the Senior Enlisted Academy or other service 
equivalent is required. 
    k.  Any missing documentation from the candidate Official 
Military Personnel File (OMPF) (for example, a missing evaluation or 
award, or documented completion of a degree.)  Career summary 
letters are not authorized. 
 
5.  Trouble with the file encryption or certificates or any other 
communication errors do not justify a late package.  Verify receipt 
of your package by contacting PERS-40FF or PERS-4012C, as 
applicable.  Packages submitted with missing documentation, or 
additional documentation not listed above will be rejected. 
Candidates will be notified after submitting their package of 
receipt and acceptance, or rejection, of their package. 
 
6.  Candidates should submit packages with a subject line using the 
applicable format below. 
    a.  Active Component CMDCM Screen Board: FY-24 Active CMDCM 
        Screen Board #125 ICO RATE LAST NAME, FIRST NAME, MI 
    b.  SELRES CMDCM Screen Board: FY-24 SELRES CMDCM Screen Board 
        #125 ICO RATE LAST NAME, FIRST NAME, MI 
    c.  TAR CMDCM Screen Board: FY-24 TAR CMDCM Screen Board #125 
        ICO RATE LAST NAME, FIRST NAME, MI 
    d.  Closed Loop CMDCM Screen Board (SO, SB, ND, EOD, AC Seabee, 
        RC Seabee): FY-24 Closed Loop CMDCM Screen Board #125 ICO 
        RATE LAST NAME, FIRST NAME, MI 
    e.  Active Component CMDCS Screen Board: FY-24 Active CMDCS 
        Screen Board #126 ICO RATE LAST NAME, FIRST NAME, MI 
    f.  SELRES CMDCS Screen Board: FY-24 SELRES CMDCS Screen Board 
        #126 ICO RATE LAST NAME, FIRST NAME, MI 
    g.  TAR CMDCS Screen Board: FY-24 TAR CMDCS Screen Board #126 
        ICO RATE LAST NAME, FIRST NAME, MI 
 
7.  Points of contact: 
    a. CMDCM PatrickPaul Mangaran, DCSELMO, at (703) 695-5594/DSN 664  
or via email at cselboard(at)us.navy.mil. 
    b. Active Component, CMDCM Bill Houlihan, Enlisted Distribution 
Division, at (901) 874-4560/DSN 882 or via e-mail at 
cselboard(at)us.navy.mil. 
    c. SELRES, FORCM Tracy Hunt at (703) 695-3976 or via e mail at 
tracy.l.hunt.mil(at)us.navy.mil. 
    d. TAR, CMDCM Darryl Williams, TAR Distribution Branch, at (901) 
874-3257/DSN 882 or via e-mail atdarryl.e.williams7.mil(at)us.navy.mil. 
 
8.  This NAVADMIN will remain in effect until superseded or canceled, 
whichever occurs first. 
 
9.  Released by Rear Admiral James P. Waters, Acting N1B.// 
 
BT 
#0001 
NNNN 
UNCLASSIFIED//
