UNCLASSIFIED//

ROUTINE

R 181829Z DEC 20 MID600050111641U

FM CNO WASHINGTON DC

TO NAVADMIN

INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC

BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 330/20

PASS TO OFFICE CODES:
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//DNS//
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//DNS//

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/DEC/

SUBJ/ANNOUNCING NEW YEARS DAY DECK LOG POEM CONTEST FOR 2021// POC/NHHC Deck 
Log Program//LOC: WASHINGTON, DC/EMAIL: NHHC _DECKLOGS(AT)navy.mil//

RMKS/1.  The Chief of Naval Operations (CNO) announces the New Years Eve Deck 
Log Poem Contest for 2021 and calls for submissions by 2359 Eastern Daylight 
Time, 2 April 2021.

2.  The deck log is the official record maintained by all commissioned U.S. 
Navy vessels.  While regulations normally restrict the types of entries in 
log books, the Navy has long held the tradition of the Midnight New Years 
Poem.  The first entry of the New Year is traditionally a poem, written in 
verse, which allows Sailors to express their creativity, experiences of 
shipboard life, and pride in their command.

3.  Reviving aspects of our heritage like this time-honored tradition 
enhances our warfighting effectiveness.  As CNO Admiral Michael M. Gilday 
noted in FRAGO 1, As we focus on the future, we will value and celebrate our 
heritage.  Harkening back to our heritage connects us with the generations of 
Sailors that came before us, creating a sense of belonging and responsibility 
to uphold their legacy of valor and sacrifice.

4.  The contest also reminds the Fleet of the importance of the deck log as a 
historical document, one that preserves for future generations the actions 
and voices of our Sailors.

5.  For examples of poems and more information, see NHHCs website: https 
://www.history.navy.mil/content/history/nhhc/research/archives/resources-for-
the-fleet/deck-logs/new-years-contest.html.

6.  Contest details:
    a.  Deadline for submissions is 2359 Eastern Daylight Time, 2 April 2021.
    b.  Due to the public-facing nature of the contest, all entries shall be
    unclassified.
    c.  Commands may submit by email or mail.  Commands concerned their 
physical submission will not be received by the deadline due to operations 
are encouraged to submit electronically.
        (1) Submitting via email: Email a PDF copy of the deck log page(s) 
with your poem to NHHC_DECKLOGS(AT)navy.mil.
        (2) Submitting via mail: when ships or vessels submit their January
        monthly deck log (via the usual address), please include a note with 
the log stating you want it to be your entry into the contest.
    d.  Eligibility.  While it is not uncommon for squadrons and staffs to 
write New Years Day poems in their watchstanding log books as well, this 
contest for now is limited to commissioned Navy vessels.
    e.  Commanding Officers that want to recognize the poems author, please
    provide their contact information with the submission email or note.  If 
the author is not named, the command will be recognized and receive the
    award.  Please see our webpage for additional contest information.
    f.  Winners will be announced on 4 June 2021.
    g.  Selections will be made for first, second, and third place.  First 
place prize is copper sheathing from USS CONSTITUTION.  Winning entries will 
be featured on the Naval History and Heritage Command (NHHC) website 
alongside examples from generations past.  The NHHC Director will recognize 
the winners as well.

7.  For questions, please contact the NHHC deck log program, NHHC: email: 
NHHC _DECKLOGS(AT)navy.mil.

8.  Released by Mr. Andrew S. Haeuptle, Director, Navy Staff.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//


