UNCLASSIFIED//

ROUTINE

R 161827Z MAR 21 MID600050379271U

FM CNO WASHINGTON DC

TO NAVADMIN

INFO SECNAV WASHINGTON DC
CMC WASHINGTON DC

BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 063/21

MSGID/NAVADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N2N6/MAR//

SUBJ/ END OF LIFE (EOL) OF COMMERCIAL VIRTUAL REMOTE (CVR) TEAMS AND 
PROTECTING CONTROLLED UNCLASSIFIED INFORMATION (CUI)//

REF/A/DOC/DOD CIO/26MAR2020//

REF/B/DOC/DOD/6MAR2020//

REF/C/DOC/SECNAV/12JUL2019//

NARR/REF A IS DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE CHIEF INFORMATION OFFICER MEMO ON 
TEMPORARY AUTHORIZATION TO USE IMPACT LEVEL (IL) 2 CLOUD ENVIRONMENT FOR 
CERTAIN BASIC CONTROLLED UNCLASSIFIED INFORMATION (CUI).  REF B IS DODI 
5200.48, CONTROLLED UNCLASSIFIED INFORMATION PROGRAM.  REF C IS SECNAVINST 
5510.36B, THE DEPARTMENT OF THE NAVY INFORMATION SECURITY POLICY.// POC 
(PRIMARY)/LIONEL VIGUE/CAPT/OPNAV N2N6/EMAIL:  LIONEL.VIGUE(AT)NAVY.MIL
/TEL:  571-256-8422//
POC (SECONDARY)/MARTHA WITTOSCH/LCDR/OPNAV N2N6
/EMAIL:  MARTHA.A.WITTOSCH(AT)NAVY.MIL/TEL:  703-492-1642// REMARKS/1.  This 
NAVADMIN serves to provide attentiveness and understanding of what 
constitutes Controlled Unclassified Information (CUI), and its proper 
handling and protection, as the Commercial Virtual Remote (CVR) environment 
reaches End of Life (EOL) 15 June 2021.  CVR, a cloud-based solution 
accessible from personal devices (using CAC login), allowed the processing of 
CUI.  When CVR goes away, users must be vigilant as CUI is not allowed on 
non-government devices (ie. personal desktop and laptop computers, tablets, 
and mobile phones).  Additional information regarding the transition off CVR 
will be provided separately.

2.  Key definitions (from references (a) and (b)):
    a.  CUI.  UNCLASSIFIED information the Government creates or possesses, 
or that an entity creates or possesses for or on behalf of the Government, 
that a law, regulation, or Government-wide policy requires or permits an 
agency to handle using safeguarding or dissemination controls, but does not 
meet the requirements for classification IAW Executive Order 13526 or the 
Atomic Energy Act.
    b.  Legacy for Official Use Only (FOUO).  Prior to the CUI program, this 
was a dissemination control marking applied to unclassified information that 
disclosure to the public of that particular Record, or portion thereof, would 
reasonably be expected to cause a foreseeable harm to an interest protected 
by one or more Exemptions of the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA).  FOUO 
information does not automatically become CUI and is not interchangeable with 
CUI.
        (1) Legacy FOUO material is not required to be re-marked or redacted 
while it remains under Department of Defense (DoD) control or is accessed 
online and downloaded for use within the DoD.
        (2) Legacy FOUO material or new derivative documents must be marked 
as CUI if the information qualifies as CUI, particularly if it is being 
shared with other government departments.
    c.  DoD CUI Registry.  Provides an official list of Categories used to 
identify the various types of CUI.  Individuals must use to ensure proper 
identification of all CUI material.  The registry can be located at:
http://www.dodcui.mil/Home/DoD-CUI-Registry.
    d.  Authorized Holders.  Individuals that designate or handle CUI and are 
responsible for determining, at the time of creation, whether information in 
a document falls into a CUI category.  If so, the authorized holder is 
responsible for applying CUI markings and dissemination instructions 
accordingly.
    e.  Lawful Government Purpose.  Any activity, mission, function, 
operation, or endeavor that the U.S. Government authorizes or recognizes as 
within the scope of its legal authorities or the legal authorities of non-
executive branch entities (such as state and local law enforcement).
    f.  Limited Dissemination Controls (LDC).  Any control used to limit or 
specify CUI dissemination.
        (1) Only Authorized Holders can apply this additional marking and 
should only use to promote a Lawful Government Purpose.  The principle of
        (2) All LDCs must be approved by the CUI Executive Agent (EA) listed 
in the CUI Registry (for example, CUI marked FED ONLY further restricts 
sharing to Federal Employees; CUI marked NOCON prohibits sharing with 
Contractors).  Lawful Government Purpose requires that Authorized Holders of 
CUI must not share CUI where sharing is prohibited, restricted, or further 
subject to LDCs.

3.  General CUI Guidelines.
    a.  Organizations should follow the guidelines as outlined in reference 
(a) for handling and protecting CUI.
    b.  IAW reference (a), personnel will not use unofficial or personal 
(e.g., .net, .com, etc.) e-mail accounts, messaging systems, or other non-DoD 
information systems to conduct official business involving CUI.
    c.  Approved or authorized government contractor systems are authorized 
to handle CUI.
    d.  Who can access CUI?  The answer is based on whether the individual 
has a Lawful Government Purpose.  While similar to Need to Know for 
classified information, Lawful Government Purpose has a different litmus 
test.  See reference (a) for guidance on Lawful Government Purpose.

4.  Training.  All personnel (military, civilian, and contractor) who are 
authorized access to classified information systems must receive initial and 
annual refresher CUI education and training.  The Center for Development of 
Security Excellence (CDSE), an element of the Defense Counterintelligence and 
Security Agency (DCSA), has developed and released the only authorized and 
approved DoD CUI training module.  The training module is accessed at 
https://www.dodcui.mil/Home/Training/.  When accessing the website, click on 
the CDSE Current CUI link to access the training and resource materials.

5.  The following sites provide additional information on the DoD CUI 
Program:
    a.  The DOD CUI Program website is https://www.dodcui.mil/
    b.  The DOD CDSE Program website is https://www.cdse.edu/toolkits/cui 
/current.html
    c.  The DOD CUI Registry website is http://www.dodcui.mil/Home/DoD-CUI
-Registry
    d.  The Department of Navy Chief Information Guidance on CUI remarking 
documents requiring PII can be found at https://www.doncio.navy.mil
/ContentView.aspx?ID=14154
    e.  Secretary of the Navy CUI Content:  
https://portal.secnav.navy.mil/orgs
/DUSNP/Security-Directorate/Information-Security/Controlled%20Unclassified
%20Information%20CUI%20Sources/Forms/AllItems.aspx

6. This message will remain in effect until canceled or superseded.

7.  Released by VADM Jeffrey E. Trussler, Deputy Chief of Naval Operations 
for Information Warfare, OPNAV N2N6.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//

