UNCLASSIFIED//

ROUTINE

R 271724Z JAN 21 MID600050176809U

FM CNO WASHINGTON DC

TO NAVADMIN

INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC

BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 024/21

PASS TO OFFICE CODES:
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/JAN//

SUBJ/PHYSICAL READINESS PROGRAM POLICY CHANGES CY2021 CYCLE, PLANK AND ROWER 
MODALITIES//

REF/A/MSG/CNO WASHINGTON DC/182104ZNOV20//
REF/B/MSG/CNO WASHINGTON DC/071628ZJUL20//
REF/C/MSG/CNO WASHINGTON DC/051654ZSEP17//
REF/D/DOC/OPNAV/11JUL11//

NARR/REF A IS NAVADMIN 304/20, PHYSICAL READINESS PROGRAM POLICY CHANGES 
CY2021 CYCLE, PLANK AND ROWER MODALITIES.  
REF B IS NAVADMIN 193/20, PHYSICAL READINESS PROGRAM POLICY UPDATE FOR 
PHYSICAL FITNESS ASSESSMENT CYCLE TWO 2020 DUE TO COVID-19 MITIGATION.  
REF C IS NAVADMIN 141/17, PHYSICAL READINESS PROGRAM POLICY CHANGES.  
REF D IS OPNAVINST 6110.1J, PHYSICAL READINESS PROGRAM.//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN cancels and replaces reference (a) and provides policy 
updates to references (b) through (d).  The major changes to reference (a) 
are delaying the Calendar Year 2021 (CY2021) Physical Fitness Assessment 
(PFA) cycle to 1 July 2021 through 31 December 2021 and announcing the 
Physical Readiness Information Management Information System (PRIMS) 
transformation.
    a.  CY2021 Physical Readiness Program (PRP).  In order to continue to 
mitigate COVID-19 impacts to the Fleet, the Navy will conduct one PFA cycle 
in CY2021 from 1 July to 31 December 2021.
Shifting the PFA cycle to July allows Navy to execute the official PFA after 
the primary influenza season while allowing time for COVID-19 vaccines to be 
more widely distributed.
        (1) Validation.  All Sailors must participate in the CY2021 PFA cycle 
(the excellent or above validation from previous cycles does not apply).  
Sailors who meet the criteria for *validation* in CY2021 PFA cycle as 
outlined in reference (c) will be exempt from participation in PFA cycle one 
2022.
        (2) A new PRP Guide 15, Conduct of the Physical Fitness Assessment in 
COVID-19 Conditions, is available on the PRP Website.
        (3) Navy will continue to evaluate conditions to allow safe execution 
of the PRT.  If required, further guidance will be provided.
    b.  Group Physical Training.  Command leadership and command fitness 
leaders (CFL) are to ensure all proper health and fitness procedures are 
performed in line with local health protection condition guidance when 
conducting body composition assessments (BCA), physical readiness tests (PRT) 
and organized group physical training (command, department, division or 
Fitness Enhancement Program).
    c.  CFL Certification.  While Commander, Navy Installations Command 
(CNIC) has resumed teaching the CFL course, CFL certifications that were 
issued after 1 January 2016 are extended until 31 December 2021 due to 
limited course availability.  Commanders may designate former CFLs who were 
initially certified after 1 January 2016 to act as CFLs until 31 December 
2021.  CFLs who have not recertified on or after 1 January 2016 are 
prohibited from being designated as the CFL and must take the 5-day CFL 
recertification course.  The CFL course has commenced introducing the new 
modalities, including requiring new students to complete a mock PFA which 
includes the plank.
    d.  Means to Regain Eligibility from PFA Failures.  Since the Navy is 
only conducting one PFA cycle during 2021, all Sailors with PFA failures, 
including those with two or more consecutive PFA failures, may regain 
eligibility for advancement or retention by passing a mock or official PFA 
prior to 31 December 2021.  Commanding officers have the authority to 
determine how many mock PFA attempts a Sailor can have to pass prior to 31 
December 2021.
    e.  Fitness Modalities.  Effective immediately, curl-ups are prohibited 
from the PRP and shall not to be performed during any group PT or official 
and mock PFAs.  The new fitness modalities (forearm plank and 2000-meter row) 
are implemented to improve the physical readiness of Sailors in alignment 
with the culture of excellence.
        (1)  The forearm plank will be conducted for both official and mock 
PFAs.
        (2)  Sailors who do not meet the minimum passing score for the 
forearm plank modality will not receive a *fail* for the 2021 cycle PRT only, 
including any mock PFAs performed.  However, Sailors must still pass the BCA, 
the push-up and cardio modalities of the PRT.  Failure to do so will result 
in a *fail* for PFA cycle 2021.

2.  A study conducted by Naval Health Research Center (NHRC) developed the 
initial forearm plank and 2000-meter row PRT performance standards and 
procedures, which are available in PRP Guides 5 and 10.

3.  The forearm plank has replaced curl-ups as the abdominal muscular 
endurance assessment.
    a.  NHRC determined that the forearm plank is a better test of core 
strength and abdominal muscular endurance.  The repeated spinal flexion 
movement of the curl-up is not operationally relevant, may aggravate lower 
back injuries and does not appropriately challenge the abdominal musculature.
    b.  The forearm plank incorporates an isometric contraction that 
activates the abdominal and trunk muscles, mimicking the main function of the 
abdominal musculature by acting as stabilizers for the spine.
    c.  The forearm plank is a functional exercise required in 85 percent of 
shipboard tasks involving pushing, pulling, lifting and carrying.  Training 
for the forearm plank will strengthen the core, improve posture and reduce 
the risk of sustaining lower-back injuries throughout the career of a Sailor.

4.  The 2000-meter row on the Concept-2 Rower will serve as another 
alternate-cardio option in addition to the 12-minute stationary bike, 500-
yard/450-meter swim and 1.5-mile treadmill run.
    a.  The 2000-meter row is a non-weight bearing, low-impact exercise, 
which reduces impact on the legs.  More importantly, rowing provides a full 
body cardio workout, engaging 80 percent of the musculature of the body.
    b.  Similar to the stationary bike, the Concept-2 Rower is space saving 
and can be used on any naval vessel or installation.
    c.  Unlike the plank, the 2000-meter row is an alternative cardio event 
and therefore a failing grade will be marked as a failure.

5.  In line with reference (d) and PRP Guides, Sailors medically cleared for 
the Navy PFA will participate in the BCA and PRT.
    a.  The new PRT event sequence will be as follows:
        (1) push-ups
        (2) forearm plank
        (3) cardio or alternate cardio
    b.  Unlike the curl-up event, both push-ups and the forearm plank 
exercise require overlapping and similar muscle groups.
        (1) During the study to develop the new forearm plank standards, 
push-ups were conducted first and the forearm plank was conducted second.
        (2) This sequence of events permits maximal performance on the push-
ups and the forearm plank accounting for any residual fatigue from push-up 
execution.

6.  To assist CFL/Assistant Command Fitness Leaders (ACFL) and members 
participating in the Navy PFA, the new standards, tutorial videos, PRP Guides 
and other training resources are available on the Navy Physical Readiness 
Program website
(https://www.public.navy.mil/bupers-
npc/support/21st_Century_Sailor/physical/Pages/default2.aspx).
    a.  Videos which demonstrate the proper form and testing procedures for 
the forearm plank and 2000-meter row for Sailors and CFLs/ACFLs will also be 
available on the Navy Physical Readiness Program website.
    b.  Sailors can prepare for the new PRT events by regularly participating 
in a well-rounded physical fitness routine outlined in reference (b).  The 
Navy Operational Fitness and Fueling System
(NOFFS) provides the Navy with physical fitness and nutrition information for 
Sailors allowing the Navy to maintain peak physical readiness and reduce 
injury risk.  NOFFS workouts can be accessed via four mobile applications 
(NOFFS-Operational, Strength, Endurance and Sandbag) which can be downloaded 
for free using your smartphone app store.  Within the NOFFS platform, planks 
are referred to as *pillar bridges*.

7.  Commander, Naval Service Training Command (NSTC) may delegate authority 
to unit commanders to decide exactly when to switch to the new PRT based on 
their accession missions.

8.  Physical Readiness Information Management System 2 (PRIMS-2).
    a.  Legacy PRIMS is migrating into a new system known as PRIMS-2 as part 
of MyNavy HR transformation efforts.  This new system does not refresh legacy 
PRIMS, it is a completely new system for CFLs to manage Official PFA 
documentation for Sailors.
        (1) Initial launch of the new system for CFLs only is scheduled for 
March 2021.
        (2) CFL access to the new system requires completion of a SAAR-N 
Form.  Current CFLs have been notified via separate correspondence (SEPCOR) 
with a sample copy of the SAAR-N Form and guidance on filling it out.
           (a) CFLs must be current with their CFL certification requirements 
to gain access.  If they have not been to the 5-Day CFL certification course 
or CFL Seminar since 1 January 2016, they must register for an upcoming CFL 
certification class.  CFL course information can be found at 
https://www.navyfitness.org/fitness/cfl-information.
           (b) PRIMS-2 training opportunities for CNIC CFL instructors and 
CFLs will commence in February 2021 and do not require completion of the 
SAAR-N Form.
        (3) Access by other authorization roles (ACFL, Special Users, 
Physical Readiness Control Officer, etc.) will be granted as they become 
available, additional guidance will be sent SEPCOR.
    b.  Sailors will not need to gain access to PRIMS-2 unless they have a 
back office role (CFL, ACFL, Read Only).
        (1) Sailor access for completion of the PARFQ form will be 
accomplished through MyNavy Portal (MNP) starting with the CY2021 Cycle.
        (2) MNP is working on adding Sailor PFA reports and forms to enhance 
the one stop shop concept.

9.  Contact the Physical Readiness Program Office (OPNAV N170B) for 
additional information:
    a.  For policy related questions via e-mail at PRP(at)navy.mil.
    b.  For PRIMS related questions via e-mail at PRIMS(at)navy.mil.
    c.  For policy or PRIMS related questions via phone at (901) 874-2210/DSN 
822.

10.  This NAVADMIN will remain in effect until superseded or canceled, 
whichever occurs first.

11.  Released by Vice Admiral John B. Nowell, Jr, N1.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//


