UNCLASSIFIED//

ROUTINE

R 291924Z MAY 20 MID110000745277U

FM CNO WASHINGTON DC

TO NAVADMIN

INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC

BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 160/20

PASS TO OFFICE CODES:
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/MAY//

SUBJ/GUIDANCE ON CONDUCTING CEREMONIES FOR RETIREMENT OR TRANSFER TO THE 
FLEET RESERVE DELAYED DUE TO THE CORONAVIRUS PANDEMIC//

REF/A/DOC/NPC/2OCT13//
REF/B/NAVADMIN/OPNAV/261427ZMAR20//
REF/C/DOC/DOD/1JAN20//
REF/D/INST/SECNAV/14MAR06//
REF/E/DOC/JTR/1MAY20//

NARR/REF A IS MILPERSMAN 1800-010, GENERAL GUIDELINES FOR CONDUCTING CEREMONY 
FOR RETIREMENT OR TRANSFER TO THE FLEET RESERVE.  
REF B IS NAVADMIN 089/20.  
REF C IS THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE (DOD) FINANCIAL MANAGMEMENT REGULATIONS.  
REF D IS SECNAVINST 7042.7K, GUIDELINES FOR USE OF OFFICIAL REPRESENTATIONAL 
FUNDS (ORF).  
REF E IS DOD JOINT TRAVEL REGULATIONS.//

RMKS/1.  In line with reference (a), this NAVADMIN announces interim policy 
guidance pertaining to command-sponsored retirement ceremonies delayed due to 
the coronavirus pandemic.  COVID-19 has limited group gatherings and 
congregate events, such as command- sponsored retirement ceremonies designed 
to express the appreciation of the Navy for the many years of faithful and 
honorable service our Service Members have devoted to their country.  This 
NAVADMIN amplifies reference (a) by permitting commands to approve delays in 
the execution of command-sponsored retirement ceremonies following an 
effective retirement date for Service Members up to 6 months after the 
cognizant installation commanding officer allows group gatherings of over 10 
people.  This authority also extends to the retirement ceremonies of those 
Service Members who receive voluntary extensions of their retirement dates 
pursuant to reference (b).

2.  As detailed by reference (a), upon notification of an approved retirement 
or Fleet Reserve transfer date by Naval Personnel Command, Service Members 
may request a command-sponsored retirement ceremony.  A request for use of 
any command resources, logistics or personnel support for a retirement 
ceremony constitutes a request for an official command-sponsored ceremony.

3.  Commands using the authority in this NAVADMIN may approve requests by 
Service Members on a case-by-case basis after fully considering existing Navy 
mitigation measures in response to the coronavirus outbreak.  Commands, as 
directed by reference (a), will make every reasonable effort within 
regulations, budgetary constraints and practicality to provide the items 
requested.

4.  Upon approval by a command, the retirement ceremony becomes an official 
command function.  Use of appropriated funds may be authorized consistent 
with reference (c) and budgetary constraints.
The sponsoring command will use current year operating funds in the fiscal 
year the retirement ceremony is held.

5.  Limitations on the use of appropriated funds.  Appropriated funds shall 
not be used for food, receptions or unofficial functions.  Specifically, 
associated events such as receptions are considered personal in nature and 
should not be funded with appropriated funds.  However, a command may provide 
notice of the time and location of a directly related reception so long as it 
will not increase the cost to the Government.  Pursuant to reference (d), 
Official Representation Funds (ORF) shall not be used for retirement 
ceremonies.  Additional questions concerning the use of appropriated funds 
for necessary expenses should be addressed through the command comptroller or 
legal counsel.

6.  To request a command-sponsored retirement ceremony, Service Members shall 
follow the procedures in reference (a) and shall request in writing to the 
commanding officer or commander of the parent command.  The request or 
extension shall be submitted early enough to allow for adequate planning.  
Reference (a) directs the ceremony be sponsored by the last permanent duty 
station regardless of whether the retiree transferred to a new activity while 
pending placement on the retired list.

7.  Limitations on personal travel entitlements.  Commands should exercise 
caution when funding personal travel for Service Members after retirement to 
the location of their command-sponsored retirement ceremonies.  Retired 
Service Members will not qualify for travel benefits under reference (e), 
section 030101.  Reference (e), section 030501, permits commands to issue 
invitational travel orders for an individual who participates in a ceremony 
directly related to the interest of the DoD component.  Travel approval 
authorities must scrutinize requests from Service Members for invitational 
travel orders on a case-by-case basis consistent with reference (c) and 
budgetary constraints.

8.  This interim policy guidance is in effect for 1 year from the date of 
issuance.  Requests from retiring Service Members will only be approved for 
command-sponsored retirement ceremonies held preceding retirement or 
following the effective retirement date for up to 6 months after the 
cognizant installation commanding officer allows group gatherings of over 10 
people.  This authority permits commands to delay command-sponsored 
retirement ceremonies consistent with reference (a) while recognizing the 
limitations posed by COVID-19 to the celebration of traditional naval 
ceremonies and events.

9.  For questions concerning these policy changes, please contact MyNavy 
Career Center at (833) 330-6622 or via e-mail at askmncc(at)navy.mil.

10.  Released by VADM John B. Nowell, Jr, N1.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//

