UNCLASSIFIED//

ROUTINE

R 171750Z JAN 20 MID510000894990U

FM CNO WASHINGTON DC

TO NAVADMIN

INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC

BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 014/20

PASS TO OFFICE CODES:
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N7//
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N7//

MSGID/NAVADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N7/JAN//

SUBJ/SEMINAR XXI CLASS OF ACADEMIC YEAR 2020-2021 CALL FOR APPLICATIONS// 
Rmks/1.  This is the call for applications for the Academic Year 2020-2021 
(AY 20-21) Massachusetts Institute of Technology Seminar XXI - Foreign 
Politics, International Relations and the National Interest. Seminar XXI 
represents a unique opportunity for future policy leaders to share 
perspectives while cultivating their understanding of the intricate 
relationships among economy, society, and culture in the international 
environment.  Seminar XXI Fellows develop broad perspectives and analytical 
skills that enable them to evaluate and formulate national policy.

2.  Seminar XXI is an educational program for current and future leaders in 
the U.S. national security and foreign policy communities.  Administered by 
MIT's Center for International Studies, the program is intended for 
professionals with significant potential to move into key decision-making 
roles in the next 5-10 years. Program participants, known as Fellows, come 
from a wide range of sponsoring organizations including the armed forces, 
Federal agencies, non-governmental organizations and private companies. The 
goal of Seminar XXI is to equip rising military officials and civilian 
executives with the multidimensional analytic skills needed to understand 
foreign relations and shape effective policy options for the United States.

3.  Course Schedule.  Participants will meet after core working hours once a 
month for a total of five evening sessions in Washington, D.C. and for three 
weekend sessions in Warrenton, VA. during the 2020-2021 academic year, 
beginning September 2020 and ending May 2021.

4.  Eligibility.  Navy Seminar XXI fellows will be Navy officers (O-5 and
above) and Civilians (GS-14 and above or equivalent) with clear promotion 
potential, and opportunity to apply these skills in their future assignments 
in the Navy. This application process is open only to individuals serving in 
Navy organizations or in the Office of the Secretary of Defense within the 
National Capitol Region for the entire period of September 2020 through May 
2021. Navy personnel in Defense Agencies and the Joint Staff must apply 
through their parent organizations.  If your specific agency is not 
participating in the AY20-21 MIT Seminar XXI selection process, please 
contact the OPNAV N7 POCs listed in this NAVADMIN.

5.  Program Specifics.  Thirteen Navy officers and Civilians will be selected 
for the AY 20-21 Seminar XXI fellowships.  Selectees must commit to attending 
every class with the full support of their command.  There is no cost to the 
participants or their commands for tuition.  Participants are responsible for 
their travel to Seminar XXI meetings.

6.  Admission Process.  For academic year 2020-2021, MIT will select a total 
of 75 personnel across the entire Federal Government.  Of these, thirteen 
will be National Capitol Region Navy nominees. Navy's screening and selection 
process will choose those individuals with the best combination of 
experience, accomplishments and clear potential for significant future 
advancement and leadership positions.

7.  Nomination Package.  Each nomination package must include the following:
Seminar XXI application form (Adobe); Sponsor endorsement form from the 
individual's reporting senior (Adobe); and a Curriculum Vitae (CV) form 
(Word).  All forms will be forwarded to the applicant by email upon request.  
Deadline for application submission to OPNAV N7 POCs is 6 March 2020.
OPNAV N7 will forward a list of the thirteen Navy finalists to the MIT 
Seminar XXI Admissions Board.  Navy nominees accepted by MIT will be notifed 
by mid-June 2020.

8.  Application Forms and OPNAV N7 POCs.  Application forms will be available 
after 1 February 2020.  Send requests for forms to the OPNAV N7 POCs:
    a. Mr. Edward Fay (N712B); DSN 260-4782 or COMM 571-256-4782; Email:
edward.fay(AT)navy.mil
    b. David Loneman (N712 Contract Support): DSN 225-5461 or COMM 703-695-
5461; Email:  david.r.loneman.ctr(AT)navy.mil

9. Released by VADM S. B. Munsch, Deputy Chief of Naval Operations for 
Warfighting Development (N7).//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//

