CLASSIFICATION: UNCLASSIFIED// 
ROUTINE 
R 172042Z JAN 23 MID200080654429U 
FM CHINFO WASHINGTON DC 
TO NAVADMIN 
BT 
UNCLAS 
 
NAVADMIN 006/23 
 
SUBJ/ANNUAL CALL FOR APPLICATIONS FROM QUALIFIED NAVY PERSONNEL FOR THE 
SYRACUSE UNIVERSITY ADVANCED MILITARY VISUAL JOURNALISM TRAINING PROGRAM 
2023// 
 
POC/MCCM TONY SISTI/CHINFO SEA/LOC:  WASHINGTON DC/TEL:  COMM:  (703) 692-
4704/DSN: 222-4704/EMAIL:  ANTHONY.B.SISTI.MIL(AT)US.NAVY.MIL// 
 
RMKS/1.  The Navy is soliciting applications from Mass Communication 
Specialists (MC) for the Syracuse University Newhouse School's Advanced 
Military Visual Journalism (AMVJ) training program for academic year 2023-
2024.  The class reporting date for both the photojournalism and graphic 
design programs is tentatively scheduled for 25 July 2023 with a projected 
graduation date of 14 May 2024.  Specific portfolio requirements are in 
paragraph 2d.  Applicants may apply to programs by submitting the appropriate 
portfolio as outlined in paragraphs 2d. and 2e. 
 
2.  Applications must be submitted via the CHINFO Portal no later than 10 
March 2023.  For complete directions and guidance for electronic submission, 
contact POC listed above and in paragraph 7.  Applications must include the 
following: 
    a.  A command endorsement on letterhead summarizing the candidate's 
qualifications, including a statement certifying the portfolio is the sole 
work of the applicant, and recommendation for candidate's acceptance in the 
program.  Parent commands are responsible for eligibility verification of 
endorsed candidates and submission of applicable waivers.  Waivers of 
prerequisites (e.g., TIS, PG, TOS, etc.) will be considered on a case-by-case 
basis.  Commanding Officers should address applicant's maturity, ability to 
work independently, financial security, and academic ability when 
recommending a nominee, particularly when requesting waivers. 
    b.  An essay explaining why a candidate is interested in the AMVJ 
program.  Essay should include motivations, influences, expectations, and 
post-course desires. 
    c.  A portfolio demonstrating sufficient technical ability to 
successfully complete the course.  An applicant must submit a portfolio with 
communication products from across the full-spectrum of media disciplines. 
    d. Photojournalism program portfolio requirements. Candidates must submit 
a 
portfolio consisting of seven examples of their work.  Portfolio must contain 
the following: 
        (1) One writing product from the Individual Writing category. 
        (2) One video product from the Individual Video category. 
        (3) Four photo products from the Individual Photo category (must have 
one picture story, one portrait personality and two photos from the any other 
Individual Photo category). 
        (4) One graphic design product from any of the Individual Graphic 
Design categories. 
    e.  Graphics program portfolio requirements.  Candidates must submit a 
portfolio consisting of seven examples of their work.  Portfolio must contain 
the following: 
        (1) One animation product. 
        (2) Two layout and design products. 
        (3) Two digital art products. 
        (4) One identity design product. 
        (5) One writing product from the Individual Writing category. 
    f.  Each product must follow the rules listed in the category 
descriptions found within the standard operating procedures for the Navy 
Media Awards. 
    g.  Applicants are required to provide a biography as part of the 
submission process.  The biography is not part of the selection process but 
will be used to identify and introduce the selectees to the faculty and staff 
at the University if selected.  No biography photo required. 
 
3.  Prior to acceptance to the program and distribution of orders, applicants 
must: 
    a.  Be approved to reenlist or extend in the MC Rating through June 2028. 
    b.  Not reach high-year tenure before June 2027. 
    c.  Have a command endorsed 1306. 
    d.  Be within physical fitness assessment standards to include no PFA 
failures in the past three years. 
    e.  Not have any civil or Non-Judicial Punishment violations in the past 
three years. 
 
4.  Course scope, prerequisites and portfolio requirements are found in 
CANTRAC, which can be accessed via the Navy Education and Training Command 
website at https://www.netc.navy.mil/.  Click on the CANTRAC icon at the 
bottom of the webpage and search for course information using the title, 
Advanced Military Visual Journalism. 
 
5.  Applicants in their orders window, and not yet selected for orders, must 
contact the detailer with your intentions.  Applicants who have executed 
orders and are en route to their next command are not eligible.  Navy 
Personnel Command has the final approval prior to final selection. 
 
6.  The selection board will convene in mid-March 2023.  Selectees will be 
notified via Naval message no later than 14 April 2023. 
 
7.  Point of contact is MCCM Anthony Sisti who can be reached by email at 
anthony.b.sisti.mil(AT)us.navy.mil or by phone at (703) 692-4704. 
 
8.  Contact Master Chief Sisti directly for the submission process. 
 
9.  Request widest dissemination. 
 
10.  Released by RDML R. M. Perry, Chief of Information.// 
 
BT 
#0001 
NNNN 
CLASSIFICATION: UNCLASSIFIED//

