UNCLASSIFIED

ROUTINE

R 041449Z MAR 22 MID200001546592U

FM CNO WASHINGTON DC

TO NAVADMIN

INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC

BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 051/22

PASS TO OFFICE CODES:
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//DNS//
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//DNS//

SUBJ/NAVY TRANSITION TO TASK MANAGEMENT TOOL - PHASE II//

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/DNS/MAR//

REF/A/MSG/012157Z FEB 22/
REF/B/MSG/021659Z FEB 22/

NARR/Reference (a) is NAVADMIN 022/22, Navy Transition to Task Management 
Tool - Announcement. Reference (b) is NAVADMIN 025/22, Navy Transition to 
Task Management Tool - Phase I.//

RMKS/1.  Purpose. Per reference (a), this NAVADMIN details the timeline and 
plan for Navy's completion of Phase II of the Navy's transition from the 
current system, the Department of the Navy Tasking, Records, and Consolidated 
Knowledge Enterprise Repository (DON TRACKER), to the Enterprise Task 
Management System

2.0 (ETMS2), commonly referred to as Task Management Tool (TMT).  In 
addition, this NAVADMIN provides leadership with a current state of training 
and expounds on the role our senior leaders, typically O6 or GS-15 and above, 
and principal officials, typically Flag Officers and Senior Executives, that 
are designated to sign official documents on behalf of their command will 
have in the full electronic routing of tasks in ETMS2 using the Senior Leader 
Approval Process (SLAP).

2.  Phase II commences immediately. All organizations shall complete the 
following tasks by 1 April 2022:
    a.  Complete a comprehensive review of all NIPR and SIPR taskers in DON
    TRACKER and close out any inactive taskers.
    b.  Complete training for all daily users and approving officials.
    NOTE:  There are training requirements for nearly every member of any 
command
    currently using DON TRACKER as the roles in ETMS2 expand all the way to 
the
    most senior leaders, including Flag Officers and Senior Executives. 
Paragraph 3
    of reference (b) outlines required training for the various levels of 
users,
    including senior leaders and principal officials.

3.  State of Training.
    a.  5,304 users of the ~17,000 required have completed Beginner
    Training.  Beginner training is the minimum requirement for obtaining an
    account in ETMS2.
    b.  291 users have completed Advanced Training.  While optional, current
    users that have attended have found it to be highly useful.  Advanced 
training
    is highly recommended.
    c.  44 of ~200 senior leaders and principal officials across the Navy 
have
    completed Senior Leadership Training.

4.  Senior Leader Approval Process, also known as SLAP, is a process within
ETMS2 whereby senior leaders and principal officials who have authority to 
sign executive-level correspondence on behalf of their command conduct 
package approvals by electronically signing packages being routed to the 
Secretary of the Navy (SECNAV) and Office of the Chief of Naval Operations 
(OPNAV).  This process enhances task efficacy, reduces unnecessary waste, and 
improves access to historical documents.
    a. Senior leaders and principal officials are required to use the SLAP 
tool
    within ETMS2 for all documents routed to SECNAV and OPNAV effective 1 
May.
    b. Electronic routing via ETMS2 allows individual electronic approvals
    through the "Route for Approval" action button.
    c. When an approval route is created, individuals assigned to the route 
will
    receive a notification via email that a task or document is ready for 
review.
    d. Using the link provided in the email notification (or by logging into 
the
    system), the individual can access the document or task that requires 
their
    electronic approval.
    e. During review, the document can be opened, annotated via tracked
    revisions, and approved or disapproved.

5.  For questions or concerns regarding Navy's transition to the TMT, please 
contact your local organization's Task Manager(s) or the Navy's ETMS2 
Transition Team at navy_etms2_transition(at)us.navy.mil.

6.  Applicability. This NAVADMIN is applicable to commands using DON TRACKER 
as the Navy's primary Task Management Solution.

7.  Released by Mr. Andrew S. Haeuptle, Director, Navy Staff.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//

