UNCLASSIFIED//

ROUTINE

R 171816Z JAN 20 MID110000310412U

FM CNO WASHINGTON DC

TO NAVADMIN

INFO SECNAV WASHINGTON DC

BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 015/20

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC//JAN//

SUBJ/GENETIC TESTING//

REF/A/DOC/DOD/09JUNE2014//

NARR/REF A IS DoDI 6025.19, Individual Medical Readiness (IMR).

RMKS/1.  Exposing your genetic information to outside parties creates 
personal and operational risks.  Navy Sailors and civilians are advised to 
avoid direct to consumer (DTC) genetic tests.  Some genetic testing companies 
encourage Department of Defense (DoD) personnel to purchase genetic ancestry 
and health information by offering military discounts or other incentives.

2.  DTC genetic tests that provide health information have varying levels of 
validity, and many are not reviewed by the Food and Drug Administration, 
meaning they may be sold without independent analysis to verify the claims of 
the seller.  Possible inaccuracies pose more risk to military personnel than 
the public due to Service Member requirements to disclose medical readiness 
information outlined in reference (a).  Testing outside the Military Health 
System is unlikely to include a clear description of this risk.

3.  There is a serious concern that outside parties are exploiting genetic 
data for questionable purposes, including mass surveillance and the ability 
to track individuals without their authorization or awareness.

4.  In addition to security risks, please be aware of potential unintended 
consequences that come with learning whom you are related to.  Some genetic 
tests inform participants of a network of likely siblings and parents.  While 
in most cases this is good and interesting, in some situations this new 
information could negatively affect your family.  I recommend that you 
discuss this topic with family members who are considering genetic testing.  
Thanks to social media and publically available information, even if you dont 
participate, when one of your relatives does, unwelcome associations may be 
created.

5.  Released by Mr. Andrew S. Haeuptle, Director, Navy Staff.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//


