UNCLASSIFIED// 
ROUTINE 
R 192030Z MAY 21 MID200000875560U 
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC 
TO NAVADMIN 
BT 
UNCLAS 
 
NAVADMIN 098/21 
 
PASS TO OFFICE CODES: 
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1// 
MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/MAY// 
 
SUBJ/FISCAL YEAR 2021 FULL-TIME SUPPORT AVIATION COMMAND RETENTION BONUS// 
 
REF/A/DOC/SECNAV/6FEB18// 
REF/B/DOC/OPNAV/1OCT19// 
NARR/REF A IS SECNAVINST 7220.88, AVIATION INCENTIVE PAYS AND BONUS PROGRAM.   
REF B IS OPNAVINST 7220.18A, AVIATION INCENTIVE PAY AND BONUS PROGRAM.// 
 
RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN announces the fiscal year (FY) 2021 Full-Time 
Support (FTS) Aviation Command Retention Bonus (ACRB), authorized in 
line with references (a) and (b).  The FY-21 FTS Aviation Department 
Head Retention Bonus (ADHRB) will be addressed in a future NAVADMIN. 
 
2.  The FTS ACRB is designed to retain those officers with the 
capabilities and command experience in our primary warfighting 
missions that are critical for the future of our service.  Our cadre 
of commander (CDR) commanding officers (CO) lead our Naval Aviation 
Enterprise today, and they are the major commanders and flag 
officers of tomorrow.  Their skills and leadership experience are 
essential to the success of the Navy.  The FY-21 ACRB incentivizes 
their continued service in follow-on assignments requiring senior 
aviation leaders. 
    a.  ACRB applicants must have screened on the FY-21 Aviation 
Command Screen Board (ACSB) as CO of an eligible operational, 
operational training, or special mission CDR command in order to 
apply.  Eligible commands are those for which the annual ACSB 
selects officers to serve as CO, excluding second-in- 
grade/sequential/bonus/fleet replacement squadron commands.  Consult 
the FY-21 ACRB program information for specific eligibility criteria 
and limitations.  The application opportunity commences with the 
release of this NAVADMIN and closes on 31 August 2021. 
    b.  All FY-21 ACRB contracts will be worth $100,000.  Eligible 
officers will receive an initial payment of $34,000 and two 
anniversary payments of $33,000.  Participation in the FY-21 ACRB 
obligates contractees to three years of obligated service to include 
full completion of a post command commander (PCC) tour, which may be 
between 24 and 36 months depending on assignment.  ACRB obligation 
ends at the completion of 22 years of service, the projected 
rotation date of the assigned PCC tour, or three years from contract 
acceptance date, whichever is later.  ACRB applications for those 
currently under ADHRB obligations will be accepted, held in abeyance 
and activated upon ADHRB contract expiration. 
 
3.  Additional ACRB Information 
    a.  Officers accepting ACRB contracts are not precluded from 
participating in the career intermission program (CIP).  Officers 
interested in both ACRB and CIP should contact the ACRB program 
manager and their detailer for more information. 
    b.  For further ACRB details, eligibility and application 
procedures, visit the MyNavy Portal at https://my.navy.mil and then 
go to Quick Links, NPC, Career Management, Detailing, Officer, PERS- 
46 FTS and open the FTS Aviation link under FTS Community Links. 
 
4.  ACRB points of contact 
    a.  Policy.  BUPERS-351D at (901) 874-3605, DSN 882 or e-mail at 
bupers-3_FTS_OCM.fct(at)navy.mil. 
    b.  Applications and Eligibility.  PERS-46C at (901) 874-4146, 
DSN 882 or e-mail at scott.urbashich(at)navy.mil. 
 
5.  Released by Vice Admiral John B. Nowell, Jr, N1.// 
 
BT 
#0001 
NNNN 
UNCLASSIFIED//
