CLASSIFICATION: UNCLASSIFIED// 
ROUTINE 
R 161850Z FEB 23 MID600052784665U 
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC 
TO NAVADMIN 
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC 
BT 
UNCLAS 
 
NAVADMIN 043/23 
 
PASS TO OFFICE CODES: 
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1// 
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1// 
MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/FEB// 
 
SUBJ/ENLISTED APPLICATIONS BEING ACCEPTED BY NAVY FLIGHT DEMONSTRATION 
SQUADRON (BLUE ANGELS) FOR 2024// 
 
REF/A/DOC/BUPERS/27APR07// 
AMPN/REF A IS MILPERSMAN 1306-919, NAVY FLIGHT DEMONSTRATION SQUADRON.// 
 
RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN announces requirements and solicits enlisted 
applications for the Navy Flight Demonstration Squadron (Blue 
Angels).  Applications must be postmarked no later than 1 May 2023. 
Selection results will be available no later than 30 June 2023. 
Personnel with a projected rotation date of October 2023 through 
April 2024 are eligible, but others may apply with command and 
detailer approval.  Personnel selected will detach from their 
present command in September 2023 and report in mid-October 2023. 
 
2.  There are open E5/E6 billets within the following Navy ratings: 
AD, AE, AM, AME, AO, AT, AZ, LS, MC, PR, and YN.  Additionally, 
chief petty officer applications are being accepted for CMDCM, AMCS, 
AMC, AZC, and YNC.  Platform-specific experience is not a 
requirement to apply. 
 
3.  Personnel selected for this unique and demanding duty represent 
the hundreds of thousands of Sailors and Marines serving throughout 
the United States and abroad.  Applicants must meet the requirements 
listed below to be considered for duty with the Blue Angels (waivers 
are not normally considered). 
    a.  Must not be in receipt of permanent change of station orders 
before final selections are made in June 2023. 
    b.  No non-judicial punishment or court-martial convictions in 
the last 36 months. 
    c.  No alcohol-related incidents (civil or military) in the last 
36 months.  Driving under the influence or driving while intoxicated 
convictions within the last five years are disqualifying. 
    d.  No financial instability or command directed counseling in 
the last 36 months.  Applicants must be eligible for a government 
credit card (this cannot be waived). 
    e.  No physical fitness assessment failures in the last 36 
months.  Personnel who have had medical waivers in the last 24 
months will be considered on a case-by-case basis only. 
    f.  Re-enlistment approval is not required to submit an 
application. 
 
4.  Interested candidates meeting the above requirements must first 
submit a fully completed Enlisted Personnel Action Request (NAVPERS 
1306/7) and Special Program Screening Form (NAVPERS 1306/92) as 
directed in reference (a) to their respective rating detailer via 
their commanding officer (CO).  After submission of NAVPERS 1306/7 
and NAVPERS 1306/92 to their detailer, applicants must submit an 
application to the Blue Angels using the following criteria (ensure 
all telephone numbers, mailing addresses, and e-mail addresses are 
included): 
    a.  CO's signed letter of endorsement on command letterhead, 
which must include:  A statement on military appearance and tattoos, 
an evaluation of the member's public speaking ability, demeanor, 
professional knowledge, and leadership skills. 
    b.  Copy of NAVPERS 1306/7. 
    c.  Original NAVPERS 1306/92. 
    d.  Copies of the last five evaluations. 
    e.  Official 5x7-inch photograph (front, side, back) in enlisted 
service uniform uncovered (Khaki for E7-E9 applicants). 
    f.  Completed applicant personal questionnaire located on the 
Blue Angels website at https://www.blueangels.navy.mil/join/. 
    g.  Common application errors include:  lack of detailed contact 
information, unsigned NAVPERS 1306/7 and NAVPERS 1306/92, NAVPERS 
1306/7 not sent to the detailer, no CO endorsement, missing 
evaluations, photos not included, packages sent to the detailer 
rather than the Blue Angels, and earliest and latest transfer dates 
not filled out in remarks section of the NAVPERS 1306/7. 
 
5.  Enlisted applications may be sent via e-mail to: 
    LSC(AW/SW) William C Kelly 
    Email:  william.c.kelly2.mil(at)us.navy.mil 
 
6.  The medical record of the applicant will be reviewed during the 
application process. 
 
7.  Candidates should contact Blue Angels 2 weeks after e-mailing 
their application to verify receipt and to schedule an interview. 
Interviews are conducted at Naval Air Facility El Centro, CA from 
release of this message through 15 March 2023.  Interviews are 
conducted at Naval Air Station Pensacola, FL, or any show site from 
16 March 2023 through 19 May 2023.  The last week to interview will 
be 14-19 May 2023 in Pensacola, FL.  All personnel currently 
stationed in the continental United States, to include those who may 
be deployed and will return prior to the final selection, are highly 
encouraged to interview in person.  In-person interviews should be 
scheduled for a member Monday through Saturday in El Centro.  If 
interviewing in Pensacola, FL, schedule the interview between Sunday 
and Thursday of the desired week.  Funding for travel is provided by 
the Service Member or their parent command.  Blue Angels do not 
provide funding for interviews.  Personnel permanently assigned 
outside of the continental United States (including Hawaii and 
Alaska), or those who are deployed, will interview via telephone. 
 
8.  Those individuals not selected will be afforded the opportunity 
of one MyNavy Assignment application.  Those individuals are 
encouraged to contact their rating detailer immediately following 
notification. 
 
9.  Point of contact is LSC William C Kelly at (760) 339-2434/DSN 
658-2434 (from release of this message through 3 March 2023) or at 
(850) 452-4184/DSN 922-4184 (after 3 March 2023) or via e-mail at 
william.c.kelly2.mil(at)us.navy.mil.  For further information, visit 
the Blue Angels' website at https://www.blueangels.navy.mil/. 
 
10.  This NAVADMIN will remain in effect until superseded or canceled, 
whichever occurs first. 
 
11.  Released by Vice Admiral Richard J. Cheeseman, Jr., N1.// 
 
BT 
#0001 
NNNN 
CLASSIFICATION: UNCLASSIFIED//
