CLASSIFICATION: UNCLASSIFIED//

ROUTINE

R 211406Z JUL 23 MID120000315354U

FM CNO WASHINGTON DC

TO NAVADMIN

INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC

BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 162/23

MSGID/NAVADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N2N6/JUL//

SUBJ/ACADEMIC YEAR 2024/25 ENLISTED CYBER MASTER OF SCIENCE DEGREE 
OPPORTUNITY AT NAVAL POSTGRADUATE SCHOOL//

REF/A/INST/OPNAV/30JAN07//
REF/B/INST/OPNAV/07JAN15//

NARR/REF A IS OPNAVINST 1160.8B, SELECTIVE REENLISTMENT BONUS PROGRAM.
REF B IS OPNAVINST 1520.23C, GRADUATE EDUCATION.//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN solicits enlisted Sailor applications for enrollment 
in the Naval Postgraduate School (NPS) 15-month Master of Science in Applied 
Cyber Operations (MACO) program.  This opportunity is one of many efforts to 
increase Cyber capabilities for the Navy by building a professional Cyber 
workforce.

2.  This program is available to E-6 and above Active Duty and Training and 
Administration of the Reserves (TAR) members in the Information Systems 
Technician (IT) and Cyber Warfare Technician (CWT) ratings.  Eligibility 
criteria and nomination process are located at the Navy Information Warfare 
Outreach Page on milSuite at https://www.milsuite.mil/book/docs/DOC-526186
(common access card e-mail certificate login required).  NPS applications 
must be submitted to NPS no later than 31 December 2023.

3.  Selectees will be assigned to Navy-funded education as full-time students 
under permanent change of station orders to Monterey, CA, with either a 
December 2024 or July 2025 start.  As full-time students, Sailors will be 
required to carry a full academic load year-round.  Degree requirements shall 
be completed in 15 months.

4.  Applications must be sent via encrypted e-mail or DOD SAFE
(https://safe.apps.mil/) to NAVIFOR_MACO(AT)us.navy.mil within two weeks of 
notification of conditional acceptance by NPS.

5.  Selection results will be disseminated via official e-mail from a Naval 
Information Force (NAVIFOR) MACO Program Officer.  Due to the highly -
competitive nature of this program, notification of selection via official e-
mail is a binding commitment which selectees must accept or decline within 
five working days of receipt.

6.  The point of contact for this program can be contacted via e-mail at 
NAVIFOR_MACO(AT)us.navy.mil.

7.  This message will remain in effect until superseded, or 1 September 2024, 
whichever occurs first.

8.  Released by VADM Jeffrey E. Trussler, Deputy Chief of Naval Operations 
For Information Warfare, OPNAV N2N6.//

BT
#0001
NNNN

CLASSIFICATION: UNCLASSIFIED//

