UNCLASSIFIED//

ROUTINE

R 141727Z MAY 21 MID200000857985U

FM CNO WASHINGTON DC

TO NAVADMIN

INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC

BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 096/21

PASS TO OFFICE CODES:
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//DNS//
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//DNS//

MSGID/NAVADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/DNS/MAY//

SUBJ/BATTLE OF MIDWAY COMMEMORATION PLANNING ORDER 2021//

REF/A/DOC/CNO/OPNAVINST 5726.8B//

AMPN/REF A IS THE OPNAVINST 5726.8B OUTREACH:  AMERICA'S NAVY//

RMKS/1. June 2021 will mark the 79th anniversary of the Navy's and the 
Nation's most historically significant naval victory.  The Battle of Midway 
(BOM) occurred 3-7 June 1942 and changed the tide of war in the Pacific and 
the course of world history.  This order provides initial guidance and tasks 
for the execution and planning of this important, global commemoration.

2.  In support of reference (a), execute a commemorative event commensurate 
with the importance of the BOM for our Navy and Nation.

3.  Commander's Intent:
    a.  Purpose:  Serve as a celebration of our Navy's greatest victories.  
Specifically, the commemoration will:
        (1) Engage the American public on how the Navy has been and remains 
critical to our nation's defense.
        (2) Inspire the current generation of Sailors to trace their roots to 
those who fought in this great battle.  Highlight the toughness, initiative, 
accountability, and integrity of American Sailors and Navy civilians who 
contributed to success at Midway and throughout World War II.
        (3) Draw parallels between today?s forward deployed naval forces and 
the historical lessons of the battle in order to cultivate an appreciation 
for our shared history and a better understanding of where our Navy is headed 
today and into the future.
    b.  Method:  Command-centered execution of a coordinated Navy-wide BOM 
commemoration.
        (1) Use available Navy outreach assets to maximum extent possible.
        (2) Be guided by, and supportive of, the Navy's strategic messaging.
    c.  End State:  The BOM commemoration becomes an institutionalized 
community outreach and a Navy pride event for all Sailors, observed globally.

4.  Tasks:
    a.  Director, Navy Staff (DNS) will oversee planning and program 
development for the annual BOM commemoration.
    b.  Naval History and Heritage Command (NHHC) will:
        (1) Coordinate and support the execution of Midway commemoration 
events to include the execution of a Navy-wide observance and supporting 
fleet BOM -related community outreach events.
        (2) Establish a Working Group (WG) of key stakeholders to oversee 
planning and program development for the BOM commemoration.
            (a) Director, NHHC will serve as chairman of the BOM WG.
            (b) Track Navy-wide commemoration plans as they develop and 
coordinate with BOM WG members to identify and share available resources for 
the global execution of the BOM commemoration.
        (3) Develop a commemoration toolkit for use by Commander, U.S. Fleet 
Forces Command (COMUSFLTFORCOM), Commander, U.S. Pacific Fleet (COMPACFLT), 
Commander, Navy Installations (CNIC), Regional Commanders, Commanding 
Officers (COs), and Officers in Charge (OIC).
            (a) Develop and make available a body of lessons learned at the 
tactical, operational, and strategic levels from previous BOM commemorations.
            (b) Post all documents and associated points of contact on the 
NHHC website (https://www.history.navy.mil) NLT 13 May 2021.
        (4) Develop a BOM 79th Anniversary Communication Plan, including 
public affairs guidance, and provide to Chief of Naval Information (CHINFO) 
for dissemination to the fleet by 13 May 2021.
        (5) Draft BOM Navy Execute Order (EXORD) for release as NAVADMIN by 
DNS.
Message to be released NLT 10 May 2021.
(6) Compile Midway lessons learned and after action from other stakeholders 
and provide to DNS NLT 17 July 2021.
    c.  COMUSFLTFORCOM; COMPACFLT; CNIC; Commander, Navy Reserve Force 
Command (COMNAVRESFORCOM); Commander, Naval Education and Training Command; 
and Commander, Naval Recruiting Command will:
        (1) Provide representatives as necessary to support the BOM WG.
        (2) Ensure COs and OICs plan for and commemorate the 79th anniversary 
of the BOM.
        (3) Execute the BOM 79th Anniversary Communication Plan, disseminated 
by the Chief of Naval Information (CHINFO), and participate in planned 
community outreach activities as operationally feasible.
        (4) Provide BOM lessons learned to NHHC NLT 22 June 2021.
        (5) Report all commemorative events to NHHC Communication and 
Outreach Division NLT 15 June 2021.
    d.  CHINFO will:
        (1) Provide representatives to the BOM WG.
        (2) Disseminate the BOM 79th Anniversary Communication Plan to ashore 
and afloat commands by 13 May 2021.  This plan should include Navy's 
strategic messaging and talking points for the commemoration.
        (3) Provide Midway lessons learned to NHHC NLT 22 June 2021.
    e.  Naval District Washington (NDW) will host a Battle of Midway 
Commemoration ceremony at 1000 (EST), Thursday, 4 June 2021, to enable local 
events to commemorate simultaneously across the nation during daylight hours.

5.  Coordinating Instructions:  Additional coordination instructions and 
tasking to be provided by separate correspondence (SEPCOR) as plans develop.

6.  Administrative:
    a.  The Midway toolkit will be available at the NHHC website
(https://www.history.navy.mil/midway) NLT 13 May 2021.  Content will be added 
to the toolkit as it becomes available, with all supporting elements complete 
and posted no later than 20 May 2021.
    b.  Public Affairs Guidance:
        (1) This is an active public affairs posture event.
        (2) Public affairs guidance will be provided SEPCOR.

7.  Point of contact.  NHHC POC, Mr. Dale Eng, Comm (202)433-7880 
dale.a.eng(AT)navy.mil.

8.  Released by Mr. Andrew S. Haeuptle, Director, Navy Staff.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//


