UNCLASSIFIED// 
 
ROUTINE 
 
R 101519Z NOV 20 MID200000351443U 
 
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC 
 
TO NAVADMIN 
 
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC 
 
BT 
UNCLAS 
 
NAVADMIN 302/20 
 
PASS TO OFFICE CODES: 
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1// 
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1 
 
MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/NOV// 
 
SUBJ/TERMINATION OF GLOBAL AUTHORIZED DEPARTURE FOR INDIVIDUALS AT 
HIGHER RISK FROM COVID-19// 
 
REF/A/MEMO/OSD/16SEP2020// 
REF/B/NAVADMIN/OPNAV/222028ZSEP20// 
REF/C/MEMO/OSD/13OCT2020// 
REF/D/NAVADMIN/OPNAV/231208ZOCT20// 
 
NARR/REF A IS MEMO FROM UNDERSECRETARY OF DEFENSE FOR PERSONNEL AND 
READINESS (USD PR), AUTHORIZED DEPARTURE-INDIVIDUALS AT HIGHER RISK 
FROM COVID-19.   
REF B IS NAVADMIN 264/20, NEW GLOBAL AUTHORIZED DEPARTURE AND TERMINATION 
PROCESS FOR INDIVIDUALS AT HIGHER RISK FROM COVID-19.   
REF C IS OUSD PR MEMO, AUTHORIZED DEPARTURE TRANSITION AND 
TERMINATION INDIVIDUALS AT HIGHER RISK FROM COVID-19.   
REF D IS NAVADMIN 284/20, EXTENSION OF NEW GLOBAL AUTHORIZED 
DEPARTURE FOR INDIVIDUALS AT HIGHER RISK FROM COVID-19. 
 
RMKS/1.  References (a) and (b), announced a new global authorized 
departure (GAD) effective 10 September 2020 to 9 October 2020. 
References (c) and (d), announced an authorized departure extension 
from 10 October 2020 to 9 December 2020.  This NAVADMIN announces 
the termination of the global authorized departure on 9 December 
2020. 
 
2.  This NAVADMIN applies to the Department of Defense (DoD) 
eligible family members (EFM) and civilian employees who are 
currently at their safe haven location.  In line with reference (c), 
global authorized departure ends 9 December 2020 and all dependents 
should plan to return to their permanent duty station (PDS) by that 
date.  Due to the global authorized departure terminating, approval 
to return to the PDS location is not required.  Extensions to safe 
haven allowances caused by unavoidable delays beyond the control of 
the dependent (such as pregnancy, new birth, etc.) may be approved 
on a case-by-case basis through the Secretarial process.  All other 
extension requests require approval by the Office of the Under 
Secretary of Defense, Personnel and Readiness.  Regardless of 
decision authority, all requests for extension of safe haven 
allowances beyond 9 December 2020 must end prior to 8 March 2021 and 
must be submitted to Military Pay and Compensation Policy Branch 
(OPNAV N130) via e-mail at nxag_n130c(at)navy.mil.  If DoD EFM or 
civilian employee cannot meet the 9 December 2020 return date to 
PDS, inform OPNAV N130 immediately and submit requests as early as 
possible, as the approval process for extensions is lengthy. 
 
3.  Dependents that do not want to return to the PDS due to 
health/security concerns may request an early return of dependents 
(ERD).  Requests should be routed as early as possible to the 
Combatant Commander (COCOM) for approval.  Submit COCOM approvals to 
Career Management Department (PERS-4) via e-mail at 
overseas_earlyreturn(at)navy.mil to begin the order writing process. 
ERD includes the ability to select a designated place that is not 
the safe haven.  If an ERD is approved, travel allowances from the 
safe haven to the designated place must not exceed the cost of 
allowances from the safe haven to the PDS of the Service Member. 
Service Members must be aware that safe haven allowances terminate 
on 9 December 2020, even if an ERD request has been submitted, 
unless an extension as described in paragraph 2 has been separately 
approved.  If an ERD is warranted, Service Members should start the 
request now. 
 
4.  Dependents that are delayed during their travel back to the PDS 
due to issues such as a delay in government transportation, a 
positive COVID test result or a temporary foreign government travel 
ban may be considered an authorized delay based on the circumstances 
and may receive full per diem until transportation is available. 
 
5.  Service Members with questions regarding this NAVADMIN should 
contact MyNavy Career Center, available 24/7, by phone at (833) 330- 
MNCC ((833) 330-6622) or via e-mail at askmncc(at)navy.mil. 
 
6.  This NAVADMIN will remain in effect until superseded or 
canceled, whichever occurs first. 
 
7.  Released by Vice Admiral John B. Nowell, Jr, N1.// 
 
BT 
#0001 
NNNN 
UNCLASSIFIED//

