UNCLASSIFIED//

ROUTINE

R 131647Z JUL 21 MID600050795136U

FM CNO WASHINGTON DC

TO NAVADMIN

INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC

BT
UNCLAS
NAVADMIN 150/21
PASS TO OFFICE CODES:
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/JUL//

SUBJ/DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE COVID-19 TESTING PRIOR TO OVERSEAS TRAVEL (UPDATE 
2)//

REF/A/NAVADMIN/OPNAV/291854ZJAN21//

REF/B/EXECUTIVE ORDER/13998/21JAN21//

REF/C/USD P&R MEMO/16APR21//

REF/D/CDC ORDER/12JAN21//

REF/E/GENADMIN/USTRANSCOM/102224ZJUN21//

REF/F/NAVADMIN/OPNAV/160550ZFEB21//

NARR/REF A IS NAVADMIN 026/21, DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE COVID-19 TESTING PRIOR 
TO OVERSEAS TRAVEL.  REF B IS EXECUTIVE ORDER 13998, PROMOTING COVID-19 
SAFETY IN DOMESTIC AND INTERNATIONAL TRAVEL.  REF C IS FORCE HEALTH 
PROTECTION GUIDANCE SUPPLEMENT 20.  REF D IS CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL AND 
PREVENTION ORDER REQUIREMENT FOR NEGATIVE PRE-DEPARTURE COVID-19 TEST RESULT 
OR DOCUMENTATION OF RECOVERY FROM COVID-19 FOR ALL AIRLINE OR OTHER AIRCRAFT 
PASSENGERS ARRIVING INTO THE UNITED STATES FROM ANY FOREIGN COUNTRY.  REF E 
IS USTRANSCOM GUIDANCE TO THE JOINT FORCE UPDATING COVID-19 TRAVEL 
REQUIREMENTS FOR TRAVELERS IN RESPONSE TO FORCE HEALTH PROTECTION SUPPLEMENTS 
16 REVISION 1, 17 AND 20.  REF F IS NAVADMIN 037/21, U.S. NAVY COVID-19 
STANDARDIZED OPERATIONAL GUIDANCE VERSION 4.0.//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN updates options for COVID-19 testing prior to 
international travel, provides exceptions to the testing requirement as 
delineated in references (b) through (e), and provides updated processes for 
travelers that test positive prior to or during travel.  In line with 
reference (e), U.S. Transportation Command
(USTRANSCOM) will no longer provide support services (transportation, 
lodging, sustenance, etc.) to travelers denied boarding due to COVID-19.  
Additionally, no earlier than 15 July 2021, USTRANSCOM will suspend all 
COVID-19 testing at all Continental United States (CONUS)-based Aerial Points 
of Embarkation (APOE).  Reference (a) is canceled.

2.  The dynamic nature of the COVID-19 pandemic requires the continuation of 
measures to mitigate the risk of COVID-19 spread.
Many countries, to include the U.S., require negative test results before 
arrival.  In line with reference (c), and to ensure Service Members and 
families are not refused travel or delayed, all travelers executing 
international orders, to include returning to the U.S. from a foreign 
country, are required to have a negative viral COVID-19 test (molecular or 
antigen).  However, a molecular test is the preferred test prior to travel.  
If the destination location requires a specific test, test timing, or test 
result format, travelers must follow the stricter requirement.  Individuals 
should review the Foreign Clearance Guide (FCG) at 
https://www.fcg.pentagon.mil/Fcg.cfm to determine the exact entry 
requirements for the final destination.

3.  Service Members and/or family members must do the following
    a.  Possess, and present on request, proof of a negative viral
COVID-19 test administered within 72 hours of embarkation for international 
travel for each traveling family member unless the exceptions in paragraph 
3.b. apply.  Valid proof may be electronic or printed for commercial flights.  
Printed proof will be required prior to Air Mobility Command (AMC) Patriot 
Express (PE) (i.e.,
rotator) or military aircraft flights.
    b.  Exceptions to Testing.  Unless otherwise required by a more 
restrictive DoD Policy or specific entry requirements for the final
destination:
        (1) Individuals fully recovered from a laboratory-confirmed diagnosis 
of COVID-19 infection within the previous three months are not required to 
undergo viral testing.  Individuals recovered from
COVID-19 infection and desiring to travel will receive clearance from a 
healthcare provider or public health official and maintain a copy of the 
clearance letter in their possession during travel.
         (2) Individuals who are fully vaccinated are exempt from viral 
testing prior to travel from the United States to a foreign country.  Fully 
vaccinated personnel are required to undergo viral testing prior to travel 
from a foreign country to the United States and post-international travel 
testing.
    c.  Review the FCG at https://www.fcg.pentagon.mil/fcg.cfm to determine 
the exact entry requirements for the final destination (does not apply to 
routine intermediate stops) to avoid delays, fines, or other complications 
upon arrival.  COVID-19 travel information for travelers returning to the 
United States may be found on the Department of State website at 
https://travel.state.gov/content/travel/en/traveladvisories/ea/covid
-19-information.html.  Additionally, travelers are encouraged to register for 
the Smart Traveler Enrollment Program at https://step.state.gov for a free 
service enabling travelers to enroll their trip with the nearest U.S. Embassy 
or Consulate.  This service provides updates from the embassy regarding 
travel requirements and safety conditions in the destination country.
    d.  Review associated destination requirements, such as type of test, 
timing or test result format, to determine specifics for entry that may be 
more restrictive than service policy, e.g., testing within 72 hours from 
arrival instead of embarkation - in this case, travelers must execute their 
testing in order to arrive at their embarkation site with proof and have 
sufficient time remaining to travel to their destination prior to the 
requirement expiring.
    e.  Plan intermediate travel and leave.  Do not place you and your family 
in extremis should an unexpected restriction of movement
(ROM) be required while traveling prior to embarkation.  During trip 
planning, ensure you identify facilities along your route of travel that will 
accommodate you or a family member who may become COVID-19 positive.  
Additionally, financially plan for an extended trip and/or additional tests 
should they become necessary.  Service Members are encouraged to use their 
Government Travel Charge Card
(GTCC) for travel expenses on official orders as this will assist in 
alleviating personal financial impact.  TRICARE covers COVID-19 tests when 
medically necessary and appropriate.  Visit 
https://www.tricare.mil/covid19testing for more details on COVID-19 testing 
coverage.  TRICARE does not fund strictly travel-based tests.  If not using a 
military facility, Service Members traveling on official orders should be 
prepared to pay for tests and be refunded via travel claim, in line with the 
Joint Travel Regulations.  For those that choose not to use the GTCC or do 
not possess a GTCC, advanced travel pay is encouraged since molecular- based 
tests may be expensive.  If paying for a commercial test that requires an 
upfront fee (copay), Service Members should ensure to submit the full testing 
cost via travel claim.
    f.  Take responsibility for testing.  The service is providing the 
following options to assist with individual travel situations, but it is the 
responsibility of the traveler to ensure all requirements have been met:
        (1) When traveling internationally from the U.S.:
            (a) Military treatment facilities (MTF) will execute free tests 
for Service Members and dependents in possession of international orders in 
line with reference (c).  Tests should be scheduled prior to arrival at the 
MTF.  MTFs should deliver hard copy documentation of test results within 24 
hours of testing to the Service Members and dependents.  This allows for 
testing in a different area than former duty stations to account for leave or 
training in route.  A non-inclusive list of preferred MTFs may be found on 
the Overseas PCS COVID-19 Testing Fact Sheet via the MyNavy Portal at 
https://www.mnp.navy.mil/covid-19.html.  Note:  Most MTFs are closed during 
the weekend and holidays.  Travelers are encouraged to plan for alternate 
testing solutions if boarding a flight at the beginning of the week.
            (b) Commercial sites that support antigen or molecular- based 
tests (e.g., Polymerase Chain Reaction (PCR) and Abbott ID
NOW) may be used to satisfy the requirement.  See planning and cost 
considerations above.
        (2) When traveling to the U.S. from a foreign country:
            (a) Travelers returning to the U.S. should primarily use their 
closest U.S. installation MTF.  COVID-19 testing results will be available 
via TRICARE Online, often within 24 hours of testing.
Results may be printed, if hard copies are required.  A list of preferred 
international MTFs may be found on the Overseas PCS COVID-
19 Testing Fact Sheet via the MyNavy Portal at 
https://www.mnp.navy.mil/covid-19.html.
            (b) International commercial sites that support antigen or 
molecular-based tests may also be used to satisfy the requirement.  However, 
travelers should consult with their local installation, military liaison, or 
U.S. Embassy prior to doing so.
See planning and cost considerations above.
    g.  Travelers that test positive for COVID-19 while executing 
international travel must do the following:
        (1) Immediately execute ROM procedures.  If a member of a family unit 
tests positive, the entire family unit must commence ROM.  Travelers may not 
proceed separately.  If not already in place at suitable lodging, priority 
for ROM site should be given to the following in order:  1) home or detaching 
installation, 2) nearby family member, 3) nearby acceptable military 
installation and 4) nearby acceptable hotel.  Call ahead to the preferred ROM 
site for notification and support.  If no ROM site is available and 
additional support is required, call the MyNavy Career Center (MNCC) contact 
information below.  While in ROM, travelers must strictly adhere to force 
protection health guidance and return to work criteria, in line with 
reference (f).  Do not proceed until consulting with your detailer and/or AMC 
(if at a U.S. PE APOE).
        (2) Contact the MNCC for initial notification and additional support, 
available 24/7, by phone at 1-833-330-MNCC (6622) or e-mail at 
askmncc(at)navy.mil.  Provide valid contact information and proof of positive 
test result(s) to the servicing MNCC agent.  The servicing MNCC agent will 
take appropriate action to notify the Service Member detailer, Navy Passenger 
Transportation Office (NAVPTO), and the OPNAV COVID-19 Taskforce Liaison.
        (3) Continue communicating with your detailer and NAVPTO agent for 
orders modification (ORDMOD) and logistics support.  Upon notification from 
the MNCC, the detailer and NAVPTO agent will contact the Service Member to 
discuss an ORDMOD and re-book future travel.  ORDMODs will ensure per diem is 
available and reimbursable for qualified expenses incurred during the ROM 
period.  Service Members may use the GTCC if issued.  Additionally, Service 
Members may request a travel advance through the MNCC regardless of GTCC 
possession.
        (4) Secure from ROM.  Once the travelers meet return to work 
criteria, in line with reference (f) and in conjunction with any medical 
provider guidance, they may continue execution of their orders after 
conferring with detailers and/or AMC (if at a U.S. PE APOE).  Service Members 
and detailers should be proactive to continue travel as soon as possible.

4.  Command Pay and Personnel Administrators must do the following before a 
Service Member detaches
    a.  Notify Service Member of the testing requirement for international 
travel and options.  Keep a record of the plans of the Service Member for 
testing, to include the intended facility site and date.
    b.  Counsel Service Members on the expense for commercial testing and 
discuss options for the potential financial burden, e.g.
GTCC, advanced travel pay, reimbursement, etc.
    c.  Ensure the Service Member has detaching command contact information 
in case additional support is needed during an intermediate ROM status.

5.  Contact the MNCC with any questions, issues or to provide feedback at 
833-330-MNCC/6622 or via e-mail at askmncc(at)navy.mil.

6.  Released by Vice Admiral John B. Nowell, Jr, N1.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//

