UNCLASSIFIED//

ROUTINE

R 251609Z MAR 20 MID110000522446U

FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//DNS//

TO NAVADMIN

INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC

BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 079/20

PASS TO OFFICE CODES:
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//DNS//

SUBJ/NAVAL HISTORY AND HERITAGE COMMEMORATION - VIETNAM WAR//

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/DNS/MAR//

RMKS/1.  The U.S. Navy performed a wide array of missions during the Vietnam 
War. In the air, it was a key partner with the U.S. Air Force during the 
Rolling Thunder and Linebacker air campaigns against North Vietnam, and in 
other air operations in Laos and Cambodia. On the coast, it developed a 
highly effective blockade to prevent the resupply of enemy forces by sea, 
engaged in naval gunfire support missions against enemy targets in the 
littoral areas of Vietnam, and provided amphibious transport for Marines 
operating in I Corps. On the rivers, it stood up several task forces designed 
to protect commercial traffic, assist allied ground forces in pacifying these 
areas, and interdict enemy troops and supplies moving on these inland 
waterways. The U.S. Navy also supported the war effort with a massive sea and 
riverine logistics operation, built and managed shore facilities throughout 
South Vietnam, and provided extensive medical support for the allied military 
operation. More than 1.8 million Sailors served in Southeast Asia.  The Navy 
brought to bear many unique capabilities, the most significant being the 
projection of U.S. naval combat power ashore and control of the seas to 
support a land war in Asia far from the United States. Overall, the Navy 
suffered the loss of 1,631 men killed and 4,178 wounded during the course of 
the war.

2.  To ensure the sacrifices of the 9 million who served during this 
difficult chapter of our country's history are remembered for generations to 
come, President Donald Trump signed into law the Vietnam War Veterans 
Recognition Act of 2017, designating March 29 of each year as National 
Vietnam War Veterans Day. On March 29 we will honor all those who answered 
our Nation's call to duty. We vow to never again confuse personal disapproval 
of war with prejudice against those who honorably wear the uniform of our 
Armed Forces. With conviction, our Nation pledges our enduring respect, our 
continuing care, and our everlasting commitment to all Vietnam Veterans.

3.  Mission. Meet the President's direction by honoring and recognizing 
Vietnam Veterans for their service to the Nation and Navy.

4.  Commander's Intent
    a.  Purpose.  Commemorate National Vietnam War Veterans Day on 29 March
    2020.
    b.  Method.  Navy-wide recognition of National Vietnam War Veterans Day
    using available Navy outreach assets to maximum extent possible keeping 
in mind mitigation measures in effect as a response to COVID-19. Be guided 
by, and supportive of, the Navy's strategic messaging.
    c.  End State:  The National Vietnam War Veterans Day commemoration 
becomes an institutionalized community outreach and Navy pride event for all 
Sailors, past and present, observed globally.

5.  Tasks
    a.  Director, Naval History and Heritage Command (NHHC)
        (1) Develop a commemoration toolkit for use by Commander, U.S. Fleet
        Forces Command (COMUSFLTFORCOM), Commander, U.S. Pacific Fleet 
(COMPACFLT), Commander, Navy Installations Command (CNIC), Regional 
Commanders, Commanding Officers (CO), and Officers in Charge (OIC).
    b.  COMUSFLTFORCOM; COMPACFLT; CNIC; Commander, Navy Reserve Force 
Command (COMNAVRESFORCOM); Commander, Naval Education and Training Command; 
and Commander, Naval Recruiting Command:
        (1) Use commemoration toolkit, disseminated by NHHC, as operationally
        feasible to honor the service of Vietnam War veterans.
    c.  CHINFO.  Coordinate with NHHC on fleet-wide communication and digital
    engagement efforts in support of Vietnam War Veterans Day.

6.  Administrative
    a.  The National Vietnam War Veterans Day commemoration toolkit is 
available at the NHHC website (https://www.history.navy.mil/browse-by-topic
/commemorations-toolkits/Vietnam-War-Veterans-Day.html).
    b.  Public Affairs Guidance:
        (1) This is an active public affairs posture event.

8.  Point of contact.  NHHC POC is Eric Ritter, at comm: (202) 685-1292 or 
via email: eric.d.ritter(AT)navy.mil.

9.  Released by Mr. Andrew S. Haeuptle, Director, Navy Staff.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//

