UNCLASSIFIED//

ROUTINE

R 031843Z AUG 21 MID200001087448U

FM CNO WASHINGTON DC

TO NAVADMIN

INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC

BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 194/21

PASS TO OFFICE CODES:
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//DNS//
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//DNS//

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/DNS/JUN//

SUBJ/246TH NAVY BIRTHDAY PLANNING ORDER//

REF/A/CNO/OPNAVINST 5726.8B

NARR/REF A is CNO's Outreach: America's Navy.//

RMKS/1.  13 October 2021 will mark the Navy's 246th Birthday. The central 
theme of this year's 246th birthday and heritage week will be "Resilient and 
Ready,"
which speaks to the Navy's history of being able to shake off disaster, such 
as the loss of a ship or a global pandemic, and still maintain force 
lethality and preparedness. The announcement of this theme allows planners at 
all echelons to focus on talking points, guest speaker and solicitations for 
this year's commemorations. Beginning with the establishment of our Navy in 
1775 and continuing to our current modern fleet, our Navy has stood the 
watch. The United States Navy has been the shield of the Republic for more 
than two centuries. We are the Nation's forward deployed presence 24/7, 365 
days a year.

2.  Today, the Navy's Birthday celebration encompasses the traditions of 
honor, courage, and commitment, the value of being second to none, and the 
Sailors who are the very foundation upon which we have built the world's 
greatest Navy and secured its victories.

3.  Execute Navy Birthday events in a manner that bring honor and respect 
upon our service.

4.  Commander's Intent:
    a.  Purpose. Celebrate 246 years of naval history on or around 13 October
    2021.
    b.  Method. Execute a global birthday celebration.
    c.  End State. Instill in our Sailors and public the importance of, and a
    sense of pride in, our Navy's history and heritage. Celebrate our 
glorious
    victories at sea and honor our shipmates who stand and have stood the 
watch.

5.  Tasks.
    a.  Director, Navy Staff (DNS) will oversee planning and program 
development
    for the annual Navy Birthday celebration.
    b.  Navy History and Heritage Command (NHHC) will:
        (1) Oversee the execution of Navy Birthday events.
        (2) Provide digital resources for use by US Fleet Forces Command
        (USFFC), Commander, Pacific Fleet (COMPACFLT), Commander, Naval 
Reserve Forces
        Command (COMRESFOR), Commander, Naval Installations Command (CNIC), 
Chief of
        Information (CHINFO), Regional Commanders and Commanding Officers 
(COs) and
        Officers in Charge (OICs).
        (3) Provide Navy Birthday toolkit at www.history.navy.mil/birthday.
        (4) Collect information from USFFC, COMPACFLT, CNIC, COMRESFOR, 
CHINFO,
        and Navy District Washington (NDW) regarding specific celebratory 
activities.
        (5) Develop and make available on NHHC's website, a body of lessons
        learned from previous Navy Birthday celebrations.
        (6) Produce Plan of the Day historical notes for each warfare 
community
        for the week leading up to the celebration.
    c.  USFFC and COMPACFLT will:
        (1) Ensure COs and OICs plan for and celebrate the 246th Navy 
Birthday.
        Events shall be coordinated with NHHC, CNIC, and Region or 
Operational
        Commanders to support the requirement for coordinated ceremonies.
        (2) Execute CHINFO Communication Plan and participate in planned
        community activities as operationally feasible.
        (3) Provide lessons learned to NHHC NLT 13 November 2021.
        (4) Report command specific scheduled celebratory activities to NHHC
        weekly starting 14 September 2021.
    d.  CNIC will:
        (1) Ensure Regional Commanders host a Navy Birthday ceremony and 
other
        celebratory activities during Navy Birthday and heritage week.
        (2) Assist and direct Regional Commanders with a bell ringing 
ceremony
        and assist subordinate commands with other Navy Birthday 
celebrations.
        (3) Provide lessons learned to NHHC NLT 12 November 2021.
        (4) Execute CHINFO Communication Plan and participate in planned
        community activities as operational feasible.
        (5) Report command specific scheduled celebratory activities to NHHC
        weekly starting 14 September 2021.
    e.  COMRESFOR will:
        (1) Ensure Regional Reserve Component Commanders and Navy Operational
        Support Commands (NOSC) host a Navy Birthday celebration, bell 
ringing, and
        other celebratory activities during Navy Birthday week; including 
October 2021
        drill weekends, or as close to 13 October 2021 as feasible.
        (2) Provide lessons learned to NHHC NLT 12 November 2021.
        (3) Execute CHINFO Communication Plan and particpate in planned
        community activities as operationally feasible.
        (4) Report command specific scheduled celebratory activities to NHHC
        weekly starting 14 September 2021.
    f.  CHINFO will develop a Navy Birthday Communication Plan in 
coordination
    with NHHC and provide to ashore and afloat commands by 14 September 2021. 
This
    plan should include Navy's strategic message and talking points for this 
event
    linked to reference (a) efforts.
    g.  NDW will:
        (1) Execute a bell ringing ceremony in honor of those who stood the
        watch in our Nation's Navy. Schedule bell ringing and celebrations 
with NHCC to
        support the requirement for coordinated ceremonies.
        (2) Provide DNS with Plan of Actions and Milestones for the execution 
of
        the National Capital Region (NCR) Navy Birthday Celebration NLT 7 
September
        2021.
        (3) Provide lessons learned from the NCR ceremony to NHHC NLT 12
        November 2021.

6.  Admin.
    a.  The following are directed to be available at the NHHC website
    [www.history.navy.mil]: Plan of the day historical notes for the week of 
Navy
    Birthday, Navy ball template, history stand-down lessons, and a template 
for
    Navy Birthday bell ringing, NLT 30 August 2021.
    b.  Regional Commanders, COs and OICs will use NHHC and CHINFO products 
to
    inform and motivate their Sailors.
    c.  Discretionary celebratory events. The following is a list including, 
but
    not limited to, the events Commanders may schedule:
        (1) Bell ringing ceremony
        (2) Plan of the Day notes
        (3) Cake cutting
        (4) History stand-down
        (5) Reading of SECNAV/CNO Birthday messages
        (6) Command picnics/fun day
        (7) Golf tournament
        (8) Awards ceremony
        (9) Chief's Mess/Wardroom Luncheons
        (10) Classic Navy movie presentation
        (11) Birthday run
        (12) Re-enlistments
        (13) Birthday ball/dining out
    d.  Public Affairs Guidance.
        (1) This is an active PA posture event.
        (2) Public affairs guidance will be provided SEPCOR.

7.  Command relationships.
    a.  NHHC is the supported command.
    b.  USFFC, COMPACFLT, CNIC, CHINFO, COMRESFOR, and NDW are supporting
    commands.
    c.  Supplemental Navy Birthday PLANORDS will be released to assist COs 
and
    OICs in order to implement a successful Navy Birthday celebration.

8.  Planning and execution of events must adhere to applicable Centers for 
Disease Control and Prevention guidance at 
https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019
-ncov/index.html.  Consult with a Staff Judge Advocate regarding any other 
local, state, DoD or Navy COVID-19 related requirements or restrictions.

9.  Point of Contact (POC).
    a.  NHHC POC is Stefanie Lamay, comm:  202-433-0301,
    email:  stefanie.lamay(AT)navy.mil.
    b.  Supporting commanders provide primary POC contact information to
    Stefanie Lamay NLT 7 September 2021.

9.  Released by Mr. Andrew S. Haeuptle, Director, Navy Staff.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//

