UNCLASSIFIED//

ROUTINE

R 172205Z JUL 20 MID110000838485U

FM CNO WASHINGTON DC

TO NAVADMIN

INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC

BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 203/20

MSGID/NAVADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/CNO/JUL//

SUBJ/PUBLIC DISPLAY OR DEPICTION OF FLAGS IN THE NAVY//
POC/ELLIOTT/JEFF/CIV/CHINFO/LOC: WASHINGTON DC/TEL: 703-692-4754

REF/A/MEMO/OSD/20200716//
REF/B/MEMO/USN/20200717//

AMPN/Reference (a) is Secretary of Defense Memorandum Subj: Public Display or 
Depiction of Flags in the Department of Defense.  
Reference (b) is Under Secretary of the Navy Memorandum Subj: Public Display 
or Depiction of Flags in the Department of the Navy.

RMKS/1.  In references (a) and (b), the Secretary of Defense and Under 
Secretary of the Navy state that our number one mission is to provide combat-
ready naval forces able to deter conflict or, if necessary, prevail in 
combat.  In order to ensure our forces are ready, these references highlight 
the importance of unit cohesion and note that flags are powerful symbols.  
The flags we fly must accord with the military imperatives of good order and 
discipline, treating all our people with dignity and respect, and rejecting 
divisive symbols.  Paragraph 2 below quotes reference (a).

2.  Consequently, in addition to the American flag, Service members and 
civilian employees are authorized to display or depict representational flags 
that promote unity and esprit de corps, including:
a. Flags of U.S. States and Territories and the District of Columbia; b. 
Military Service flags; c. Flag or General Officer flags; d. Presidentially-
appointed, Senate-confirmed civilian flags; e. Senior Executive Service (SES) 
and Military Department-specific SES flags; f. The POW/MIA flag; g. Flags of 
other countries, for which the United States is an ally or partner, or for 
official protocol purposes; h. Flags of organizations in which the United 
States is a member (e.g., NATO) i. Ceremonial, command, unit, or branch flags 
or guidons.  This guidance applies to public displays or depictions of flags 
by Service members and civilian employees in all Department of Defense work 
places, common access areas, and public areas, including, but not limited to:
a. Office buildings, facilities, naval vessels, aircraft, government 
vehicles, hangars, garages, ready rooms, conference rooms, individual 
offices, cubicles, storage rooms, tool and equipment rooms, workshops, break 
rooms, kitchens /galleys, recreational areas, commissaries, Navy and Marine 
Corps and Army and Air Force exchanges, and heads/latrines/restrooms - 
including property and buildings off installation leased by the Department; 
b. Sensitive compartmented information facilities and other secure 
facilities; c. Open-bay barracks, berthing areas, and common areas of 
barracks and bachelor quarters; d. School houses and training facilities; e. 
All spaces or items in public or plain view, such as the outside areas of any 
Department of Defense buildings and government-operated or public-private 
venture housing (e.g., parking lots, yards, gazebos, or porches).

3.  I expect all Commanders to exercise their authority in a way that 
maintains unit cohesion and good order and discipline, while respecting the 
rights of Sailors and civilian employees.  To aid Commanders in balancing 
these considerations as they implement the references, Commanders should 
consult a judge advocate or legal counsel.

4.  Released by Admiral Mike Gilday, Chief of Naval Operations.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//

