UNCLASSIFIED//

ROUTINE

R 241855Z NOV 20 MID200000413160U

FM CNO WASHINGTON DC

TO NAVADMIN

INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC

BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 309/20

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N8/NOV//


SUBJ/NOMINATIONS FOR 2021 SECRETARY OF DEFENSE FIELD LEVEL MAINTENANCE 
AWARDS//

REF/A/INST/DODI 1348.30/8APR2019//

NARR/REF A IS THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE (DoD) INSTRUCTION FOR THE SECRETARY 
OF DEFENSE MAINTENANCE AWARDS PROGRAM//

RMKS/1.  The annual Secretary of Defense (SECDEF) Maintenance Awards Program 
acknowledges maintenance excellence by formally recognizing field-level 
military units responsible for outstanding achievements in maintenance 
management and production.  SECDEF presents six DoD wide maintenance awards 
to the most outstanding large, medium, and small organizations.  One of these 
six winners will be recognized as the best of the best and awarded the 
Phoenix Trophy.

2.  Competitive Categories:
    a.  Large: 1000 or more authorized personnel
    b.  Medium: 301-999 authorized personnel
    c.  Small: up to 300 authorized personnel

3.  All active and reserve component field-level commands and units 
responsible for organizational and intermediate-level maintenance on weapons 
systems and/or equipment belonging to their own unit, or to other units, are 
eligible to compete.  Examples of eligible activities include ships, 
squadrons, Naval Stations, etc.  A component of a command such as a repair 
department of a submarine base may be nominated if that component is assigned 
a Unit Identification Code distinct from the command as a whole.  The 
preponderance of unit staffing shall be comprised of uniformed U.S. military 
personnel and DoD civilians.  The 2021 SECDEF Maintenance Awards competitive 
period covers Fiscal Year 2020.  The 2021 awards will be presented at a 
formal ceremony on a date to be announced.

4.  Echelon II commanders must review and screen nominations from their 
respective commands and may submit up to two SECDEF field level maintenance 
award nominations per category to Office of the Chief of Naval Operations
(OPNAV) N8.  OPNAV (N8) will evaluate the nominations and forward two 
nominees per category to SECDEF for award consideration.

5.  Each nomination package must be submitted in accordance with reference 
(a), via email, to Mr. Randy Pilkerton, randy.pilkerton(at)navy.mil.  Please 
pay special attention to the requirements outlined in reference (a) with 
regards to the eight page limitation for nomination packages and the three 
weighted evaluation factors for field-level units.  It is imperative that 
nomination packages highlight accomplishments of the unit, and support with 
qualifying statements of fact.  Each nomination package should include a one 
paragraph executive summary highlighting the extraordinary accomplishments of 
the unit, and include a separate high resolution image file of their unit 
logo (minimum of 300 DPI file).

6.  Echelon II endorsed nomination packages are due no later than 19 February 
2021.  Follow on messages will announce Navy finalists and SECDEF field level 
maintenance award winners.

7.  Point of contact for nomination packages is Mr. Randy Pilkerton, OPNAV 
N83, at (703) 695-4925, or via e-mail at randy.pilkerton(at)navy.mil.

8.  This NAVADMIN will remain in effect until superseded or canceled.

9.  Released by direction Neil W. T. Hogg, SES, Assistant Deputy Chief Of 
Naval Operations, N8B.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//


