UNCLASSIFIED//

ROUTINE

R 151741Z APR 20 MID110000584670U

FM CNO WASHINGTON DC

TO NAVADMIN

INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC

BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 108/20

PASS TO OFFICE CODES:
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/APR//

SUBJ/SELECTIVE REENLISTMENT BONUS PROGRAM UPDATE APRIL 2020//

REF/A/MSG/CNO WASHINGTON DC/021614ZDEC19//

REF/B/DOC/OPNAV/1APR19//

REF/C/DOC/COMNAVPERSCOM/2AUG18//

NARR/REF A IS NAVADMIN 272/19, SELECTIVE REENLISTMENT BONUS AND PAY FOR 
PERFORMANCE PILOT UPDATE DECEMBER 2020.  REF B IS OPNAVINST 1160.8B, 
SELECTIVE REENLISTMENT BONUS PROGRAM.  REF C IS MILPERSMAN ARTICLE 1306-604, 
ACTIVE OBLIGATED SERVICE (OBLISERV) FOR SERVICE SCHOOLS.//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN announces revised selective reenlistment bonus (SRB) 
policy for Active Component (AC) and Full-Time Support (FTS), superseding 
reference (a).

2.  Sailors must now reenlist within 365-days of their end of active 
obligated service (EAOS) (as opposed to 270-days required in reference (a)), 
except in the case of Nuclear-trained Sailors who can reenlist at any point 
in the reenlistment zone, per guidance in reference (b).

3.  The pay for performance program continues its pilot as part of Sailor 
2025 and the overall talent management process for the Navy.
Eligibility and submission requirements are as follows:
    a.  To be eligible, Sailors must:
        (1) Be in the EM, EN, GSM, MM(SW), DC, HT, MR, CSS or AWS rating.
        (2) Have received two Early Promotes (EPs) in block 45 of their three 
most recent periodic evaluations.  Block 8 may indicate REGULAR, FROCKED or 
SELECTED.  Block 10 must be checked for periodic.  No transfer, concurrent or 
special evaluations will apply.  Evaluations are not limited to performance 
documented in the last three years.  The intent is to evaluate the last three 
periodic evaluations, regardless of how far back in a career that may go, so 
as not to limit eligibility to only those who have served at a single duty 
station for at least three years.
        (3) Have not received Non-Judicial Punishment within the last three 
years.
        (4) Have not failed any part of the physical fitness assessment in 
the last three years.
    b.  Commands must submit a NAVPERS 1306/7, Enlisted Personnel Action 
Request, requesting the SRB kicker, signed copies of the evaluations of the 
Sailor and a printout of their physical readiness information management 
system data to BUPERS-328 once their pre- certification has been submitted.  
This requirement is only for those who fall under the provisions of this 
paragraph.
    c.  Award ceiling cap values under $100,000 will be raised by
$5,000 for Sailors eligible for the performance kicker.  Award ceiling caps 
will not be adjusted over $100,000 under these provisions.

4.  SRB Submission Requirements
    a.  Commands are required to submit SRB reenlistment requests to the 
Enlisted Community Support Branch (BUPERS-328) via Officer Personnel 
Information System (OPINS) or Navy Standard Integrated Personnel System 
(NSIPS) 35 to 120 days in advance of the requested reenlistment date of the 
Sailor.  Requests submitted less than 35 days prior to the requested 
reenlistment date will be rejected.  However, commands may contact BUPERS-328 
for waiver eligibility evaluation and procedural assistance.  Sailors must 
have an approved SRB request before reenlisting.  The servicing personnel 
office is responsible for verifying the reenlistment, posting the contract, 
releasing the first payment and verifying the master military pay account.  
Commands shall immediately notify the Military Pay and Compensation Policy 
Branch (OPNAV N130) when a Sailor fails to maintain eligibility in the skill 
for which SRB was paid (e.g., loss of security clearance, medical 
disqualification, loss of eligible Navy Enlisted Classification (NEC), 
misconduct) or when a Sailor has an approved separation with a remaining SRB 
contract obligation.
    b.  Career Waypoints-Reenlistment (C-WAY-REEN).  Commands are authorized 
to submit SRB reenlistment requests prior to a Sailor receiving a C-WAY-REEN 
quota.  However, the member must have a final C-WAY-REEN approval prior to 
reenlistment.
    c.  Sailors with approved SRB requests who do not reenlist on the date or 
for the term specified in the SRB approval message must have their command 
contact BUPERS-328 to initiate a reenlistment cancellation to avoid placing 
Sailors in an overpaid status.

5.  Acceptance of a NEC-specific SRB contract indicates an agreement between 
the Sailor and the Navy to use those NEC skills to meet Fleet readiness 
requirements.  In subsequent tours, a Sailor must be willing to be detailed 
during the normal projected rotation date window to an available billet 
within the SRB contracted NEC, consistent with sea-shore flow requirements.  
Lateral conversions must follow reference (b), subparagraph 16d.

6.  Reference (b), paragraph 16f, provides OBLISERV to Train (OTT) guidance.  
Submit OTT requests to the BUPERS-328 extension desk by submitting an 
Electronic Personnel Action Request (ePar) via My Navy Portal (MNP), or by 
submitting a 1306/7 via email to askmncc@navy.mil.  Sailors should retain a 
copy of the authorization message until reenlistment.  Use code 1CC for OTT 
SRB request in OPINS or NSIPS.  Additionally, school OBLISERV requirements 
are provided in reference (c).  OBLISERV will be determined based on course 
length as provided in paragraph 3b of reference (c).
Paragraph 3c(1) no longer applies.

7.  In keeping with Department of Defense (DoD) policy, Sailors who accepted 
an enlistment bonus for extended enlistment (EBEE), as reflected on their 
Enlisted Bonus Payment Checklist (NAVCRUIT 1133/52, Enlistment Guarantees, 
New Accession Training Program Enlistment Guarantee or Professional 
Apprenticeship Career Track Program Enlistment Guarantees), are not 
authorized to use this inoperative extension time in the SRB calculation.  
Sailors who have inoperative extension time through a 5- or 6-year obligation 
program may continue to have up to 24 months of inoperative extension time 
count towards the SRB calculation provided the reenlistment results in a new 
EAOS that is at least 24 months day-for-day past their current extended EAOS.  
This calculation is performed automatically by BUPERS-328.  Local commands 
are not authorized to cancel or change extensions for the purpose of 
immediate SRB reenlistments.  Commands must verify and annotate on the 
precertification request whether any inoperative extension time noted is part 
of an EBEE contract.

8.  Repayment policy is governed by Section 373 of Title 37, U.S.
Code, DoD Financial Management Regulation (FMR) Chapter 2, Volume 7A and 
reference (b), which collectively determine when repayment of the unearned 
portion of a bonus is required or not required but left to Secretarial 
discretion or prohibited.  Section 373 of Title 37, U.S. Code requires 
repayment with certain exceptions.  As a general rule, repayment of any 
unearned portion of a bonus will be sought.

9.  Sailors who have reenlisted and have not received their SRB payment or 
who have questions concerning the taxation of their SRB and annual 
installments should contact their servicing pay office or personnel support 
detachment.  SRB tax information is also discussed in DoD FMR, Volume 7A, 
Chapter 44, table 44-1, rule 5.  Questions regarding the SRB program or any 
information regarding on-line personnel accounts should be directed to your 
command career counselor (CCC).  For questions regarding current award levels 
check the SRB website via MyNavy Portal at ttps://www.mnp.navy.mil/group/pay-
and-benefits, then click on the *SRB* tab.  For technical questions or 
clarification, CCCs, not individual Sailors, are encouraged to contact 
BUPERS-328 at (901) 874-3215 or (901) 874-3915/DSN 882 or via e-mail at 
mill_incen_pays(at)navy.mil or contact the SRB Help Desk at (901) 874-
2526/DSN 882.

10.  We will continue to assess retention behavior and adjust SRB award 
levels accordingly.

11.  This NAVADMIN will remain in effect until superseded or canceled, 
whichever comes first.

12.  Released by Vice Admiral John B. Nowell, Jr, N1.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//

