UNCLASSIFIED//

ROUTINE

R 042027Z MAY 20 MID110000638416U

FM CNO WASHINGTON DC

TO NAVADMIN

INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC

BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 132/20

PASS TO OFFICE CODES:
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/MAY//

SUBJ/FORCE MANAGEMENT OPERATIONAL MITIGATION MEASURES IN RESPONSE TO 
CORONAVIRUS OUTBREAK//

REF/A/NAVADMIN/OPNAV/212136ZAPR20//

REF/B/NAVADMIN/OPNAV/261427ZMAR20//

REF/C/NAVADMIN/OPNAV/151741ZAPR20//

NARR/REF A IS NAVADMIN 116/20, NAVY MITIGATION MEASURES IN RESPONSE TO 
CORONAVIRUS OUTBREAK UPDATE 4.  REF B IS NAVADMIN 089/20, VOLUNTARY 
EXTENSIONS FOR ACTIVE COMPONENT NAVY MEMBERS WITH APPROVED SEPARATION OR 
RETIREMENT DATES.  REF C IS NAVADMIN 108/20, SELECTIVE REENLISTMENT BONUS 
PROGRAM UPDATE APRIL 2020.//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN announces the continued efforts of the Navy to 
mitigate the effects of the coronavirus disease (COVID-19) and maintain 
operational, Sailor and family readiness.  Due to the uncertainty regarding 
the duration of the COVID-19 Pandemic, the mandated all stop on permanent 
change of station travel outlined in reference (a) and the resulting effect 
on the U.S. economy, the Navy is implementing additional personnel policy 
actions to maintain our maritime superiority.  This NAVADMIN complements 
personnel policy outlined in reference (b) and expands monetary and non-
monetary incentives to retain and distribute Sailors in support of 
operational requirements during this challenging time.

2.  High Year Tenure (HYT) Waiver Expansion.  Reference (b) provides Service 
Members who are separating or retiring due to HYT the opportunity to apply 
for a HYT waiver for 12 months.  This NAVADMIN expands the HYT waiver 
opportunity by an additional 12 months, for a total of 24 months, for Sailors 
(Active Component and Full-Time Support) in pay grades E-3 through E-5 who 
are filling critical operational billets, both at sea and shore.  
Additionally, the application deadline is extended from 1 July to 30 
September 2020.
Requests will be approved on a case-by-case basis.  Interested Sailors should 
submit a command endorsed Electronic Personnel Action Request (ePAR/1306) to 
MyNavy Career Center (MNCC) via MyNavy Portal or by emailing the ePAR request 
directly to askmncc(at)navy.mil.
Additional policies outlined in reference (b) remain in effect.

3.  Sea Duty Incentive Pay (SDIP) Expansion.  Sailors with certain skills, 
who are willing to extend at sea or return to sea early, are eligible to 
receive a lump sum payment in return for their extension or curtailment.  A 
list of eligible skills can be found at https://www.mnp.navy.mil/group/pay-
and-benefits.  This list was most recently revised on 20 April 2020 and is 
updated on a regular basis, so Sailors and command leaders are encouraged to 
frequently check the eligibility list.  Sailors interested in volunteering 
for SDIP should contact their detailer and apply 14-16 months prior to their 
projected rotation date.  However, due to COVID-19, submissions inside of 
this timeline may be waived.  Additionally, reference (b) provides Sailors in 
SDIP-eligible skills who are separating or retiring and who are willing to 
delay their departure by 6-12 months the opportunity to receive SDIP.  As 
with HYT waivers, the application deadline for Sailors separating or retiring 
is extended from 1 July to 30 September 2020.

4.  Selective Reenlistment Bonus (SRB) Update.  Reference (c) announced 
changes to the SRB program, allowing Sailors to reenlist up to 365 days 
before their end of active obligated service instead of 270 days.  On 30 
April 2020, 22 new skillsets were added and are now SRB eligible and 123 
skillsets had the SRB bonus amounts increased.  In an effort to publish these 
changes to the Fleet in the most timely manner possible, updates are made 
directly to the SRB website which can be found by visiting 
https://www.mnp.navy.mil/group/pay-and-benefits, then clicking on the *SRB* 
tab.  For technical questions or clarification, Command Career Counselors, 
not individual Sailors, are encouraged to contact
BUPERS-328 at (901) 874-3215 or (901) 874-3915/DSN 882 or via e-mail at 
mill_incen_pays(at)navy.mil or to contact the SRB Help Desk at
(901) 874-2526/DSN 882.

5.  Reserve and New Accession Training (NAT) Opportunities.  In addition to 
the aforementioned policy announcements, the Navy is opening active duty 
career opportunities for NAT candidates and Sailors of the Individual Ready 
Reserve (IRR) with recent Fleet experience.  NAT candidates will be contacted 
by the Naval Education and Training Command (NETC) and IRR Sailors can expect 
to be contacted by Navy Recruiting Command (NRC).  For the IRR Sailors, 
reenlistment bonuses will be offered, if eligible.

6.  Questions regarding delaying a Service Member separation or retirement 
date should be referred to the appropriate detailer or community manager.  
The point of contact for questions regarding SDIP is Mr. Keith Tucker, PERS-
40DD, (901)874-3545 or keith.tucker(at)navy.mil.  The point of contact for 
questions regarding SRB is BUPERS-328 (refer to paragraph 4).  All other 
questions and concerns regarding these policy changes may be referred to 
MyNavy Call Center (MNCC) at askmncc(at)navy.mil or 1- 833-330-MNCC (6622).

7.  Released by Vice Admiral John B. Nowell, Jr, N1.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//

