UNCLASSIFIED//

ROUTINE

R 221604Z DEC 20 MID600050116144U

FM CNO WASHINGTON DC

TO NAVADMIN

INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC

BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 333/20

PASS TO OFFICE CODES:
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N7//
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N7//

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N71/DEC//

SUBJ/EXECUTIVE MASTER OF BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION DISTANCE LEARNING DEGREE 
PROGRAM FOR MARCH 2021//

REF/A/MSG/CNO WASHINGTON DC/061710ZAUG07//

AMPN/REF A IS NAVADMIN 195/07, OFFICER GRADUATE EDUCATION SERVICE 
OBLIGATION.//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN announces application procedures for the March 2021 
Distance Learning Executive Master of Business Administration (EMBA) program.
The EMBA Program has been identified for sundown, and the March 2021 cohort 
will be the final cohort to start the course.

2.  Background:
     a.  The Naval Postgraduate School (NPS) defense focused EMBA is a 24 
month, fully funded, part-time graduate program focused on financial 
management. The program targets middle to senior grade active-duty officers, 
lieutenant commander (select) and senior (lieutenant by waiver).
     b.  Classes are delivered via online technologies with synchronous, live
     interaction between faculty and students. All students are required to 
have a computer with internet access, a webcam and a microphone.
     c.  The EMBA program begins with a required one-week Temporary 
Additional Duty (TAD) in-residence session at NPS in Monterey, CA. The week 
of 22-26 March 2021 includes an orientation and a graduate-level course on 
the management of teams. A second week of required TAD in-residence 
instruction is scheduled amid the EMBA program during the week of 22-26 
August 2022. Other than these two visits to NPS Monterey, students complete 
all instruction from their duty locations. The parent command of the student 
will provide official travel orders and funding for TAD travel. If command 
funding is not available, students may fund their own travel and utilize no-
cost TAD orders from their commands.
     d.  Active duty Naval officers accepted into the EMBA program are
     integrated into cohorts with civilian students. Typically, a cohort is
     comprised of approximately 25 students from which student teams are 
formed.  Cohorts take all classes together during the 24 months of 
instruction on one day per week for approximately six to seven hours per day 
during regular continental United States duty hours.

3.  Criteria:
     a.  Eligibility requirements include an undergraduate degree from a
     regionally accredited 4-year college or university, 2.6 grade point 
average or higher on a 4 point scale, and at least one college-level 
mathematics course. A commanding officer endorsement letter is required to 
participate in the program. Department head or similar mid-level management 
experience and strong potential for promotion are preferred. Participants 
must have a projected rotation date no earlier than March 2023. The Graduate 
Management Admission Test is not required.
     b.  Admission to the EMBA program is available to applicants in any
     geographic location, regardless of the number of applicants in a 
location.

4.  Application Process:
     Officers interested in the EMBA program can visit the NPS EMBA home
     page at www.nps.edu/emba for detailed eligibility and application 
process information. Deadline for the application process is no later than 4 
January 2021. Online instruction begins 31 March 2021.

5.  Post Graduation:
     a.  Graduates will be awarded an EMBA graduate degree from NPS and the 
Navy subspecialty code 3100P, Financial Management-Defense Focus. Graduates 
working in acquisition billets will also earn Defense Acquisition University 
Level II equivalences for all program management functional training.
     b.  As directed by reference (a), officers participating in this program
     must agree to remain on active duty following completion of graduate 
studies for a period of 3 years. This obligation is discharged concurrently 
with any other service obligation already incurred. This agreement does not 
obligate the Navy to retain the officer on active duty.

6.  Point of contact:
     NPS EMBA program office, at (831) 656-2562/DSN 756, or via e-mail at
     emba(at)nps.edu.

7.  This message will remain in effect until superseded or 31 December 2021, 
whichever occurs first.

8.  Released by Rear Admiral James S. Bynum, Acting Deputy Chief of Naval 
Operations for Warfighting Development (N7).//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//


