CLASSIFICATION: UNCLASSIFIED//

ROUTINE

R 311913Z JUL 23 MID120000337666U

FM CNO WASHINGTON DC

TO NAVADMIN

INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC

BT
UNCLAS
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 172/23

MSGID/NAVADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N2N6/JUL//

SUBJ/FISCAL YEAR 2023 OCEANOGRAPHER OF THE NAVY AWARD NOMINATIONS//

REF/A/INST/OPNAV/20JUN19//

NARR/REF A IS CHIEF OF NAVAL OPERATIONS INSTRUCTION NAVAL OCEANOGRAPHY AWARD 
PROGRAM WHICH ESTABLISHES AWARDS TO RECOGNIZE OUTSTANDING ACHIEVEMENT IN THE 
FIELD OF NAVAL OCEANOGRAPHY.// POC/ANGELLICA PERKINS/LT/OPNAV N2N6E/TEL: 
(703) 614-1847/EMAIL:
ANGELLICA.M.PERKINS.MIL (AT) US.NAVY.MIL// POC/JP GARSTKA/CAPT/OPNAV 
N2N6E/TEL: (703) 614-1864/EMAIL:
JOHN.P.GARSTKA.MIL (AT)US.NAVY.MIL//

RMKS/1.  The Naval Oceanography Awards program was established to recognize 
outstanding achievement in the field of Naval Oceanography by officers, chief 
petty officers, and civilians.  The award is sponsored by the Oceanographer 
of the Navy per reference (a).

2.  Award criteria and eligibility.  One awardee will be selected for each of 
the following awards:
    a.  Captain Richard C. Steere Award recognizes junior officers afloat or 
ashore for their leadership, performance, special accomplishments, and expert 
application of the meteorology and oceanography sciences.  U.S. Navy Active 
and Reserve Officers in the paygrades of O-1 to O-3 with designators of 
1800/6800 are eligible.
    b.  The Commander Mary Sears Award recognizes mid-grade officers who 
demonstrate sustained superior performance, outstanding leadership ability, 
personal initiative, cooperation and adaptability, outstanding military 
bearing, and exemplary military and professional conduct.  U.S. Navy Active 
and Reserve Officers in the paygrade of O-4 with designators of 1800/6800 are 
eligible.
    c.  The Chief Aerographers Mate John Dungan Jr. Award recognizes Navy 
senior enlisted in the oceanography community, afloat or ashore, for their 
leadership, performance, special accomplishments, and expertise in 
forecasting and analysis in the applied sciences of meteorology and 
oceanography in support of fleet operations.  U.S.
Navy Active and Reserve component chief and senior chief petty officer 
aerographers mates are eligible.
    d.  The Matthew Henson Award recognizes Naval Oceanography civilian 
employees for their leadership, performance, special accomplishments, and 
expert application of the meteorology and oceanography sciences in support of 
Naval operations.  Department of the Navy civilian employees at or below the 
grade of GS-13 are eligible.

3.  Nominations.  The period of eligibility is from 1 October 2022 to 30 
September 2023.  Nomination packages should be submitted as specified in 
reference (a).  Packages must arrive to the Oceanographer of the Navy via 
email to LT Angellica Perkins at angellica.m.perkins.mil(at)us.navy.mil and 
CAPT John Garstka at john.p.garstka.mil(at)us.navy.mil no later than 13 
October 2023.
The Oceanographer of the Navy and Commander, Naval Meteorology and 
Oceanography Command will convene a joint board consisting of their 
respective Technical Directors, Senior Enlisted Advisor/Command Master Chief, 
Executive Assistant/Chief of Staff, and others as appropriate, who will 
select awardees based upon the above criteria and content of the respective 
nomination packages.  Nominations must be unclassified and submitted on 
command letterhead by scan and email (preferred) or letter mail.  Nomination 
packages must include:
    a.  Name/Rank or Grade; to include contact information (phone number and 
email)
    b.  Job title, pay plan, and occupation code organization and location
    c.  Date of commission/promotion history (officer) or pay entry base 
date/advancement history (enlisted)
    d.  Active duty assignments/employment (inclusive dates/in reverse 
chronological order)
    e.  Significant prior awards (personal, service, campaign/in reverse 
chronological order)
    f.  Education (year, degree, school, major field of study)
    g.  Command letter of endorsement to include the Commanding Officer's 
contact information (phone number and email);
    h.  Significant accomplishments in the past year (bullet format)
    i.  One page biography (include membership in professional or scientific 
societies, civic organizations, etc)

4.  Recognition.  The Oceanographer of the Navy will announce the award by 
naval message on or about the birthday of Naval Oceanography, 6 December 
2023, and will recognize the awardee in person or their respective Commanding 
Officer.

5.  Released by VADM Jeffrey E. Trussler, Deputy Chief of Naval Operations 
for Information Warfare, OPNAV N2N6.//

BT
#0001
NNNN

CLASSIFICATION: UNCLASSIFIED//

