CLASSIFICATION: UNCLASSIFIED// 
ROUTINE 
R 161455Z MAR 23 MID200080810373U 
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC 
TO NAVADMIN 
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC 
BT 
UNCLAS 
 
NAVADMIN 073/23 
 
PASS TO OFFICE CODES: 
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1// 
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1// 
MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/MAR// 
 
SUBJ/FY-24 ACTIVE-DUTY NAVY NUCLEAR LIMITED DUTY OFFICER IN SERVICE 
PROCUREMENT SELECTION BOARD RESULTS// 
 
REF/A/DOC/MANMED/20FEB19// 
AMPN/REF A IS NAVMED P 117, MANUAL OF MEDICAL DEPARTMENT.// 
 
RMKS/1.  Congratulations to selectees of the Fiscal Year 2024 
Active-Duty Navy Nuclear Limited Duty Officer (LDO) In-Service 
Procurement (ISP) Board. 
 
2.  For LDO selectees, read name, commissioning month/year.  All 
appointments are effective on the first day of the commissioning 
month.  Members are directed to verify their select status via 
BUPERS Online. 
                     LIMITED DUTY OFFICER ENSIGN 
                         NUCLEAR POWER - 620X 
Anderson Aaron Robert     0724     Boring William Maurice    0824 
Bousquet Richard J Jr     0324     Buchholz Ryan James       0424 
Cabrera Melvin Leonel     0724     Castro Steven Michael     0424 
Conklin Douglas A         1123     Corey Christopher C       0924 
Crabtree Christopher D    0824     Dague Alexander W         0224 
Dellapenna Zachary G      0824     Dunn Jacob Sterling       1223 
Feola Matthew James       0224     Firkins Jonathan Dean     0824 
Ford Kayla                1223     Gilliam Jonathan Seth     1123 
Gorman Andrey             0324     Grimsley Timothy D        0324 
Groves Zane Wiiliam       0424     Haan Jacob Lewis          0924 
Hayden Darik Michael      0824     Iacovino Andrew P         0724 
Jimenez Vilma Jennifer    0724     Jones Dalton Riley        1223 
Kozak Damain Kane         0724     Landers Darrell W Jr      1023 
Livingston Stephen W      1123     Loriol James Mathew       0424 
Lynch Bryan C             1123     Monrose Taquawn D         1023 
Newman Molly Ann          0224     Oneill Ryan Patrick       1123 
Redington Brendan C       0824     Sablan Christopher G      1223 
Severin Joseph Zachary    1223     Stockard Stephen K        1023 
Szad Andrew Mitchell      1023     Tilman Joseph M           0724 
Wardle Abigail Karen      1023     West Shane Kalena         0824 
Weston Steven Michael     1123     Youngblood Austin T       1223 
 
3.  Each applicant should take pride in knowing that the superior 
performance documented in the evaluations reviewed by the board 
required the members to dedicate long hours in making hard choices 
to ensure only the best and fully qualified applicants were 
selected.  I am confident that each selectee will justify their 
selection time and again in their new career as naval officers. 
Those not selected are highly encouraged to seek out an LDO/chief 
warrant officer (CWO) in your area for advice on ways to grow 
professionally and improve opportunity for future selection.  Bravo 
Zulu to all who were willing to answer the call. 
 
4.  This message is not authority to issue appointments.  Frocking 
is prohibited.  COMNAVPERSCOM (PERS-806) will deliver appointments 
to MyNavy Career Center (MNCC) Millington approximately 60 days 
prior to the commissioning date.  MNCC will forward appointments to 
the Transaction Service Center (TSC) Great Lakes, who will 
distribute directly to the respective CPPAs.  TSC Great Lakes will 
also process the conversion from enlisted to officer status for LDOs 
and CWOs, for all commands other than those who have the ability to 
process their own (CVN, SPECWAR, etc.).  TSC Great Lakes can be 
contacted directly at the below email address. 
 
5.  Commanding Officers are directed to: 
    a.  Notify selectee. 
    b.  Notify PERS-803 via official correspondence no later than 10 
days following release of this message of selectees who do not 
accept appointment.  Selectees who decline their commission within 
this 10 day period will be considered by the FY-24 Enlisted 
Selection Boards.  After the 10 day period, PERS-802 will invalidate 
all FY-24 Active-Duty Navy Nuclear LDO ISP Selection Board selectees 
eligibility for the FY-24 Active-Duty Enlisted Selection Boards. 
    c.  Per reference (a), ensure LDO selectees obtain a 
commissioning physical within 90 days preceding the appointment 
month.  Notify the Nuclear LDO detailer (PERS-422B) upon completion. 
    d.  Hold execution of all permanent change of station orders in 
abeyance, if applicable, and immediately notify PERS-40 of member's 
selection. 
    e.  Administer an official physical fitness assessment (PFA) 
within four months of commissioning date.  Selectees must hand carry 
test results to Officer Indoctrination School, Newport, RI.  If 
selectee fails to achieve satisfactory medium, notify the Nuclear 
LDO detailer (PERS-422B).  Hold commissioning in abeyance until 
successful completion of PFA. 
    f.  Hold appointment in abeyance if it is determined that a 
selectee is no longer mentally, physically, morally or 
professionally qualified or if they fail to meet current PFA 
requirements.  Immediately forward documentation citing reason to 
PERS-803. 
 
6.  If a Nuclear LDO selectee's enlistment (including any 
extensions) expires after the date of appointment, they are not 
reenlistment eligible unless appointment is declined. 
 
7.  Each selectee should contact their Nuclear LDO officer detailer 
(PERS-422B) for submission requirements with regard to personal 
information and history cards, and inform PERS-806 of address 
changes to facilitate appointment delivery. 
 
8.  Points of Contact 
    a.  PERS-422B point of contact for Nuclear LDO ISP Board, 
issues/questions is LT Karl Martin at (901) 874 3938/DSN 882. 
    b.  PERS-806 point of contact for issuance of oath and 
commissioning documents issues/questions is Mr. Lee Eclavea, at 
(901) 874 4374/DSN 882 or email at officer_appt.fct(at)navy.mil. 
    c.  MNCC point of contact for distribution of oath and 
commissioning documents is askmncc(at)navy.mil. 
    d.  TSC Great Lakes point of contact for oath of office 
distribution and conversion questions is M_GRLK_TSCEOPP(at)navy.mil. 
 
9.  Released by Vice Admiral Richard J. Cheeseman, Jr., N1.// 
 
BT 
#0001 
NNNN 
CLASSIFICATION: UNCLASSIFIED//
