RTTUZYUW RHOIAAA0001 0091542-UUUU--RHSSSUU
ZNR UUUUU
R 091540Z JAN 20 MID510000870692U
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//
TO NAVADMIN
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//
BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 005/20

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/JAN//

SUBJ/2020 MERITORIOUS ADVANCEMENT PROGRAM SEASON ONE AND SEASON TWO//

 REF/A/MSG/CNO WASHINGTON DC/011955ZAUG19// REF/B/MSG/CNO WASHINGTON
DC/201604ZDEC18// NARR/REF A IS NAVADMIN 176/19, 2019 MERITORIOUS
ADVANCEMENT PROGRAM SEASON TWO AND AUTOMATION UPDATE.  
REF B IS NAVADMIN
313/18, PROFESSIONAL MILITARY KNOWLEDGE ELIGIBILITY EXAM BUSINESS RULES.//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN updates reference (a) and announces the policy and
guidance for calendar year (CY) 2020 Meritorious Advancement Program
(MAP) for Active-Duty and Full-Time Support Sailors.  Supporting Sailor
2025, MAP is intended to empower commanding officers (CO) and their command
triads to identify and advance the most talented, experienced and proficient
Sailors within their commands based on demonstrated performance and ability.

2.  CY20 MAP Season One window is from 1 March through 30 April 2020.
Season Two window will be from 1 September through 15 October 2020.  For
additional guidance regarding MAP eligibility, quota substitutions,
professional apprenticeship career track Service Members and Recruiter of
the Quarter Program please visit MyNavy Portal (MNP) at
https://www.mnp.navy.noclick_mil/group/advancement-and-promotion/a-enlisted-
advancement-resources-and-links then select the *Website* tab in the blue
banner, select *MAP* and then select the 2020 MAP Season Info Sheet tab.

3.  MAP will account for approximately 20 percent of total advancements in
CY20 with roughly half of the available quotas allocated for each season.
All unused quotas for each season will be returned to Enlisted Plans and
Policies Branch (OPNAV N132) no later than the last day of the respective
MAP season.  Returned quotas will then be factored into the current
Navy-Wide Advancement Exam (NWAE) cycle.  Additionally, we are maintaining
the two- season framework that aligns the MAP with the NWAE to emphasize the
intent of MAP in identifying and rewarding high-performing,
technically-proficient Sailors.  COs are authorized to use E4 quotas to
advance any E1 through E3 Service Member to the next higher paygrade on a
one-for-one basis and also to meritoriously advance Sailors who are in a
frocked status.

4.  The updated MAP changes for CY20 were made in partnership with Navy
leadership and the MAP strategic working group, comprised of senior enlisted
leaders across the Fleet.  The strategic working group applied the lessons
learned from CY19 and Sailor feedback to ensure command triads have as much
latitude and flexibility as possible.  New changes for the CY20 MAP include:
    a.  Shortening the MAP seasons.  Due to the successful implementation of
MAP automation in Navy Standard Integrated Personnel System (NSIPS), and in
response to the desire of the Fleet to ensure MAP quotas are executed
efficiently, the time allotted for commands to approve MAP candidates will
be reduced from 60 to 45 days starting with CY20 MAP Season Two.
    b.  Canvasser Recruiter (CANREC) nominations.  CANREC Sailors will no
longer be advanced under the Active Component MAP.  For CANREC nominations
guidance and submission requirements, please visit
https://www.public.navy.noclick_mil/nrh/Pages/default.aspx for the FY20
Selective Reserve MAP ALNAVRES Message.  Select the *Sailor tab* in the blue
banner, then select the *Instructions/Guidance/Messages tab* and then select
the *All Navy Reserve Force Message* tab and then select ALNAVRESFOR 2020.

5.  Community Health.  Although MAP has not adversely impacted community
health, we recognize some ratings had lower NWAE opportunity as compared to
MAP.  We will continue to explore ways in which MAP can be tailored for
specific ratings of interest.

6.  Commands are required to submit their MAP advancement through NSIPS.
Commands without access to NSIPS should submit their Meritorious
Certification Letters (MCL) via e-mail to their Immediate Superior in
Command (ISIC) as detailed in paragraph 6a before the last day of the 
respective MAP season.  The system will use authoritative data to determine 
eligibility.
However, commands are still required to locally validate that MAP candidates
have successfully completed the professional military knowledge eligibility
examination requirement prior to the first day of the MAP season as outlined
in reference (b).
    a.  NSIPS Web Afloat Users.  Commands without access to NSIPS must
submit their MAP nomination request via e-mail directly to their ISIC, type
commander (TYCOM) or budget submitting office (BSO)/echelon II command using
the MCL.  The letter must be signed by the CO and should address any
exceptions to policy (ETP) and/or additional quotas requested.  Sample MCLs
and detailed information regarding the NSIPS web afloat user process can be
found via MyNavy Portal (MNP) at the *MAP* tab and then select the
*Meritorious Certification Letter (MCL) Template* and *Offline Process*.
    b.  Quota usage, modifications and distribution will be managed within
the NSIPS environment.  BSO and command quotas will be uploaded into NSIPS
on 15 February 2020 and can be found under the quota summary report tab.
Quotas can also be found via MNP at the *MAP* tab and then select the *MAP
Quotas*.
    c.  Additional quotas can be requested using the quota request option.
Commands must contact their BSO to determine timeline for additional quota
requests.  All commands are authorized to request quotas from their
BSO/echelon II command, via their ISIC and TYCOM, whether or not command
quotas are authorized.
    d.  The system will automatically determine if an ETP is required, using
predetermined criteria.  Service Members in ratings requiring security
clearances and rates/pay grades requiring time in rate (TIR) waivers will be
automatically routed for adjudication.  The request will be routed through
the ISIC, TYCOM and BSO/echelon II command using a hierarchical workflow.
    e.  Nuclear-trained Service Members.  NSIPS will not automatically
generate an ETP.  If a command desires to advance a nuclear-trained Service
Member not meeting the TIR, an ETP must be routed to Director, Military
Personnel Plans and Policy (OPNAV N13) via Nuclear Program Manager (OPNAV
N33) (E-5 TIR date of 1 January 2018 or earlier to be eligible for
advancement to E-6 during CY20 MAP Season One.  Nuclear-trained Service
Members must have an E-5 TIR date of 1 July 2018 or earlier to be eligible
for advancement to E-6 during CY20 MAP Season Two).
7.  MAP Quotas.  The number of MAP quotas by UIC will be posted on 15
February 2020 and can be found on MNP Portal at
https://www.mnp.navy.noclick_mil/group/advancement-and-promotion/a-enlisted-
advancement-resources-and-links, then select the *Websites* tab in the blue
banner.

8.  Example forms and frequently asked questions can be downloaded via
MyNavy Portal at https://www.mnp.navy.noclick_mil/group/advancement-
and-promotion/a-enlisted-advancement-resources-and-links, then select the
*Websites* tab in the blue banner.  The list of points of contact for each
BSO/echelon II command and list of parent and subordinate UICs can also be
found on this website.

9.  Point of contact is MyNavy Career Center (MNCC) at (833) 330-6622 or via 
email at askmncc(at)navy.mil.

10.  This NAVADMIN will remain in effect until superseded or canceled,
whichever comes first.

11.  Released by Vice Admiral John B. Nowell, Jr, N1.// BT

#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//


