CLASSIFICATION: UNCLASSIFIED

ROUTINE

R 201501Z MAY 22 MID200001726355U

FM CNO WASHINGTON DC

TO NAVADMIN

INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC

BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 114/22

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N8/MAY//

SUBJ/NAVY NOMINEES FOR THE 2022 SECRETARY OF DEFENSE MAINTENANCE AWARDS//

REF/A/MSG/CNO/ 012025Z DEC 21//
REF/B/MSG/CNO/ 301907Z DEC 21//

NARR/REF A IS NAVADMIN 273/21 ANNOUNCING COMPETITION FOR THE 2022 SECRETARY 
OF DEFENSE (SECDEF) MAINTENANCE AWARDS FOR FIELD LEVEL UNITS AND COMMANDS.
REF B IS NAVADMIN 274/21 ANNOUNCING COMPETITION FOR THE 2022 SECRETARY OF 
DEFENSE (SECDEF) ROBERT T. MASON DEPOT MAINTENANCE EXCELLENCE AWARD// 

POC/RANDY PILKERTON/CIV/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N83I/TEL: 703-695-4925/E-MAIL:
RANDY.PILKERTON.CIV(AT)US.NAVY.MIL//

RMKS/1.  Before announcing our Navy nominees selected to compete for the 2022 
SECDEF Maintenance Awards, I want to personally thank the numerous commands  
who took time to recognize the tremendous contributions from your field-level 
maintenance units and depot-level maintenance programs in accordance with 
references (a) and (b).  Your continued participation in this competition 
ensures that our outstanding maintenance teams are recognized for their 
remarkable efforts and support they provide to our warfighters.  It is always 
an honor to review such a competitive field of deserving units.  Your 
submittals represent the very best of Navy maintenance, making it 
particularly challenging to select our nominees to compete as finalists 
against the rest of the Department of Defense (DoD) maintenance community.

2.  Annually, SECDEF will select six winners from across the DoD to be 
awarded the SECDEF Field-Level Maintenance Award, two from each competitive 
category (small, medium, and large).  From these six winning units, one will 
be selected as the best of the best and named the annual SECDEF Phoenix Award 
winner.  Our Navy nominees selected to compete for the DoD field-level 
competition categories are:
a.  Small Commands:
Strike Fighter Squadron ONE FOUR SEVEN (VFA-147), Naval Air Station Lemoore, 
CA Commander, Fleet Air Western Pacific (CFWP) Aircraft Intermediate 
Maintenance Detachment (AIDM) Guam, FPO, AP b.  Medium Commands:
Unmanned Patrol Squadron ONE NINE (VUP-19), Naval Air Station Jacksonville, 
FL USS WINSTON S. CHURCHILL (DDG-81), Naval Station Mayport, FL c.  Large 
Commands:
USS NIMITZ (CVN-68), Naval Station Bremerton, WA TRIDENT Refit Facility Kings 
Bay (TRIREFAC-KB), Naval Submarine Base (SUBASE) Kings Bay, GA

3.  Annually, the SECDEF will also select one program from an organic depot- 
level maintenance activity to be awarded the Robert T. Mason Award for Depot 
Maintenance Excellence.  Our Navy nominees selected to compete for the depot 
-level competition category are:
Portsmouth Naval Shipyard (PNS) Submarine Maintenance, Modernization and 
Overhaul Program, Portsmouth, NH US Naval Ship Repair Facility and Japan 
Regional Maintenance Center (SRF-JRMC) Surface Ship Maintenance, Yokosuka, 
Japan

4.  A SECDEF Selection Board comprised of senior maintenance leaders from 
each service will evaluate nominated submissions from the Services and select 
six field-level winners (two per category), and one depot-level winner.  All 
SECDEF Maintenance Award winners will be recognized by the Office of the 
SECDEF at a formal awards ceremony scheduled to be held in December in 
Orlando, FL.  Selected winners and details on the awards ceremony will be 
announced later this year in a separate NAVADMIN message.

5.  Thank you to all who submitted entries into this year's SECDEF 
Maintenance Awards competition.  The outstanding initiative, imagination, and 
professionalism demonstrated from our entire maintenance community is a true 
testament to our focus on Warfighting, Warfighters and the Future Navy.  
Congratulations to our selected Navy nominees, I know that you will represent 
the Navy well in the SECDEF competition!

6.  Released by VADM, Mr. Neil W.T. Hogg, ADCNO, N8.//

BT
#0001
NNNN

UNCLASSIFIED

