CLASSIFICATION: UNCLASSIFIED//

PRIORITY

P R 211120Z NOV 23 MID120000637793U

FM COMUSFLTFORCOM NORFOLK VA

TO NAVADMIN

INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC
SECNAV WASHINGTON DC
COMUSFLTFORCOM NORFOLK VA
CTF 80

BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 282/23

MSGID/GENADMIN/COMUSFLTFORCOM NORFOLK VA/N00/NOV//

SUBJ/U.S. FLEET FORCES COMMAND LIMITED DUTY AND DISABILITY EVALUATION SYSTEM 
IMPROVEMENT SPRINT COMPLETION:  UPDATED NAVY LIMITED DUTY/DISABILITY 
EVALUATION SYSTEM PROCEDURES AND POLICIES//

REF/A/DOC/OPNAV/03OCT23//
REF/B/DOC/COMNAVPERSCOM/05SEP21//
REF/C/DOC/OPNAV/23JUN22//
REF/D/MSG/NAVADMIN/27JAN23//

NARR/REF A is OPNAVINST 1300.20A, Deployability Assessment and Assignment 
Program. 
REF B is MILPERSMAN 1300-1400, Limited Duty. 
REF C is OPNAVINST 1300.21, Enlisted Manning Policy and Procedures. 
REF D is NAVADMIN 015/23, U.S.Fleet Forces Command Limited Duty and 
Disability Evaluation System Improvement Sprint// POC/Erwin, 
Katie/LCDR/COMUSFLTFORCOM/N1COE/TEL:  757-836-7794/
Email:  KATIE.A.ERWIN.MIL(AT)US.NAVY.MIL//
POC/Byrd, David/CIV/COMUSFLTFORCOM/N1COE121/TEL:  757-836-5774/
Email:  DAVID.I.BYRD.CIV(AT)US.NAVY.MIL//

RMKS/1. In January 2023, Chief of Naval Operations designated Commander, U.S.
Fleet Forces Command (COMUSFLTFORCOM) as the supported Commander to lead a 
SPRINT addressing the number, distribution, and care of the Navy's Limited 
Duty
(LIMDU) and Disability Evaluation System (DES) Sailors. The SPRINT took 
immediate action to improve the oversight and management of LIMDU personnel 
and alleviate friction throughout the LIMDU process. A Cross-Functional Team 
(CFT) evaluated former LIMDU policies and instructions, detailing processes 
for Navy -wide distribution, and medical limitations and classification for 
Sailor?s daily work environment conditions, culminating in an improved and 
better streamlined Navy LIMDU process. This NAVADMIN highlights recent 
updates to REF A and serves as the basis for policy while REFs B and C are in 
the process of being revised.

2.  The following are LIMDU/DES requirements for all Navy commands:

2.A. Per REF A, all commands must designate, in writing, a Command 
Deployability Coordinator (DC).

2.B. Commands with 50 or more LIMDU personnel will appoint a Command DC as a 
primary duty.

2.C. Commands will assign a collateral Command DCs on a 1:50 ratio to assist 
in the management of LIMDU personnel.

2.D. Commands will proactively update their command manning documents to 
accurately reflect the status of LIMDU and DES Sailors. Leadership will 
coordinate with their local Navy Medicine Readiness and Training Command
(NMRTC) to verify accuracy of LIMDU and DES rosters.

2.E. Commands are required to update DC point of contact information in 
MyNavy Assignment (MNA) for accountability purposes. DCs must request 
Activity Manning Manager access to allow the losing command?s DC to submit 
LIMDU personnel manning action requests in MNA and provide the gaining 
command?s DC visibility on tentative inbound LIMDU gain(s). These actions 
improve LIMDU distribution workflow efficiency, provide a more streamlined 
process for DCs fleet-wide, and maintain the infrastructure needed to sustain 
the LIMDU/DES process.

2.F. Once designated, DCs are required to complete initial DC training set 
forth by the Bureau of Medicine and Surgery (BUMED). The purpose of the 
training is to ensure that DCs have the necessary tools to help assigned 
LIMDU Sailors return to service and not further restrict information from the 
command. Local NMRTCs retain this formalized training and continue to train 
command DCs in their respective regions.

2.G. Command DCs will coordinate with their local NMRTC for access to the 
LIMDU Sailor and Marine Readiness Tracker system for the unit identification 
codes
(UIC) for which they are responsible.

3. LIMDU/DES Process Updates:

3.A. Tailored LIMDU capacity established for each UIC. Distribution of LIMDU 
Sailors is now based upon several factors, such as medical limitations and 
the gaining command?s capacity and capability to provide meaningful work.
Additional factors considered include berthing accommodations, command 
mission, opportunities to conduct in-rate work, and the ability or inability 
of the individual to conduct such work. The CFT developed tailored 
percentages of enlisted billets assigned for LIMDU populations at commands 
receiving LIMDU personnel.  These tailored LIMDU percentages are now loaded 
into MNA and function as part of the detailing process.

3.B. Annual review of LIMDU vs. UIC capacity. USFLTFORCOM N1, with inputs 
from key stakeholders, U.S. Pacific Fleet (USPACFLT), BUMED, Commander, Naval 
Installations Command, Navy Personnel Command (NPC), and immediate superiors 
in command will conduct an annual review of commands? tailored LIMDU/DES 
capacity percentages. Changes will be submitted to the PERS-4 allocation 
manager for implementation in MNA.  Requests for LIMDU capacity changes 
separate from the annual review should be sent to the applicable type 
commander (TYCOM) who will forward that request to the respective Fleet 
Readiness Integrator (USFLTFORCOM, PACFLT, or NPC) for review.

3.C. NPC targeted detailing of Sailors deemed highest risk. Medical providers 
now assign a BUMED work category code developed for new LIMDU Sailors. Work 
category codes should be used by commands and the distribution system to 
ensure Sailors are correctly assigned and employed in a manner suited to 
their work capabilities. Highest risk Sailors (severe physical or mental 
health
limitations) who are unable to perform most duties and are restricted to 
limited activities of daily living and medical appointments, will be 
classified as Category 4. NPC will detail Category 4 Sailors to commands that 
have the resources and capacity to support them.

3.D. Maximization of Light Duty. In the event Sailors are prescribed LIMDU 
for conditions expected to improve within 90 days, the Sailor will not 
normally be reassigned from sea duty to shore duty, but will be retained 
administratively at their current command while they recover.  Sailors may be 
sent to Temporarily Assigned Duty during this period, as needed or 
recommended by the medical providers, to the respective TYCOM or other 
location to aid in recovery and ensure their environment is conducive to any 
physical limitations.

4. In closing, the ability for commands to effectively and efficiently 
support the uniqueness of each LIMDU Sailor rests with the command?s 
leadership at all levels. Leaders receiving LIMDU and DES Sailors must 
execute their responsibility to support the Sailors in returning to duty or 
processing a dignified separation from Naval service. Proactive leadership of 
the losing and gaining command is required to best support Sailors navigating 
the LIMDU process. Each LIMDU Sailor shares in this responsibility through 
ensuring command leadership is aware of all required administrative needs, 
command level support requirements, and conducting individual medical 
appointments as their place of duty assignment. Equally important is ensuring 
LIMDU Sailors have connectedness, team integration, and a continued sense of 
purpose. By doing so, our Naval leaders create a more resilient Sailor, 
mentally and physically, leading to a stronger, more unified Fleet when 
facing our future adversaries.

5. From Foundry to Fleet, Forged to Fight!  ADM Caudle sends.//

BT
#0001
NNNN

CLASSIFICATION: UNCLASSIFIED//

