UNCLASSIFIED//
ROUTINE
R 021545Z MAR 20 MID510001022713U
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 056/20

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/DNS/MAR//

SUBJ/USS CONSTITUTION CHIEF PETTY OFFICER (CPO) HERITAGE TRAINING// 

POC/OPNAV COORDINATOR/ERICA WRIGHT/CPO/COORD/703-695-7068/ 
ERICA.D.WRIGHT(AT)NAVY.MIL// OPNAV COORDINATOR/ELIZABETH 
STAFFORD/CPO/COORD/703-695-4948/ ELIZABETH.STAFFORD(AT)NAVY.MIL//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN announces the 2020 USS CONSTITUTION CPO Heritage Week 
Training.  
USS CONSTITUTION, located in Boston, Massachusetts, will host Fiscal Year 
2021 CPO Selectees on 17-21 August (Week 1) and 24-28 August (Week 2) 2020.

2.  CPO Selectees will work aboard "Old Ironsides" where they will be 
immersed in more than 200 years of naval heritage while learning about the 
art of sailing, construction of the ship, handling of 19thcentury guns, and 
manning her gigs. The training will culminate in bringing the USS 
CONSTITUTION alive and getting underway.

3.  USS CONSTITUTION will host 120 CPO Selectees and 30 Mentor Chiefs each 
week.
Individual commands, CPO and CMCs, do not contact the USS CONSTITUTION or 
OPNAV Coordinators, all nominations will be provided via your respective 
Fleet or Force Master Chief.  Coordinators for the Fleet or Force Master 
Chiefs will provide all nominations to the OPNAV Coordinators listed in this 
message, with the following subject line "MENTOR NOMINATION (WEEK #)- USS 
CONSTITUTION HERITAGE WEEK" or "SELECTEE NOMINATION (WEEK #) - USS 
CONSTITUTION HERITAGE WEEK".  Mentor nominations are due by close of business 
(COB) 21 May 2020.
Reserve CPO Selectee and Active CPO Selectee nominations are due one week 
following the release of the respective selection board results.  All quotas 
and staffing are coordinated through the OPNAV coordinators and the 
coordinators for the respective Fleet or Force Master Chiefs; individual 
command CMCs and CPOs, do not contact the USS CONSTITUTION or OPNAV 
Coordinators for nominations or available billets.

4.  Attendee costs for this OPNAV-authorized, mission essential training 
event are to be authorized from attendee unit training funds.  Unit 
Commanding Officers shall determine whether CPO/CPO Selectees assigned to 
their unit should attend, taking into account the availability of unit 
training funds.

5.  Logistical information such as travel recommendations and uniform 
requirements will be emailed to all participants once their attendance has 
been confirmed.

6.  Released by Mr. Andrew S. Haeuptle, Director, Navy Staff.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//

