UNCLASSIFIED//

ROUTINE

R 131712Z MAY 20 MID110000675789U

FM CNO WASHINGTON DC

TO NAVADMIN

BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 142/20

MSGID/NAVADMIN/CNIC WASHINGTON DC/N9/MAY//

SUBJ/EXCEPTIONAL FAMILY MEMBER PROGRAM SURVEY PARTICIPATION// POC/TRAVIS, 
L/CNIC WASHINGTON DC/N91/TEL: 202-433-4597/EMAIL:
LATOYA.TRAVIS(AT)NAVY.MIL//
POC/ELTING, A/CIV/CNIC WASHINGTON DC/N91/TEL: 202-433-6750/EMAIL:
ANGELA.ELTING(AT)NAVY.MIL//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN provides direction to Commanders, Commanding Officers 
and the chain of command to encourage maximum participation in the 
Exceptional Family Member Program (EFMP) survey from Sailors with family 
members with special needs.  This survey will better inform and equip Navy 
leadership to provide the best quality of life possible for our Navy family.

2.  Military families with special medical or educational needs face a unique 
set of challenges.  A family with special needs must often find specialized 
medical care providers and schools that can provide appropriate special 
education services.  EFMP is designed to allow Sailors to continue to serve 
by assisting them in providing access to care and support for family members 
with special needs, and the Navy is committed to ensuring these families are 
provided the maximum support possible in obtaining specialized education and 
medical support.

3.  The EFMP survey will assess the needs of Sailors and their families, and 
will provide Navy leadership a better understanding of the overall quality of 
service received from EFMP.  Areas of specific interest include feedback on 
experiences and concerns encompassing family support services, referrals to 
military and community resources, medical services access and quality, 
special education services, and assignment coordination.

4.  The link to the survey, https://surveys.max.gov/index.php/724986?lang=en,
will be disseminated to families via Navy Family Accountability and 
Assessment System (NFAAS), the Ombudsman Registry and social media on or 
about 15 May 2020 for immediate participation; the survey will close on 15 
June 2020.  The survey will be imbedded in Max.gov; participants will not 
need to log in or create an account.

5.  Command triads, department heads, division officers and leading Chief 
Petty Officers should communicate the value of this survey and emphasize the 
importance of participation by all exceptional family members and/or their 
sponsors.  Command outreach via family readiness groups (FRGs) and Command 
Ombudsmen is also highly encouraged.

6.  Points of contact are Commander, Navy Installations Command Exceptional 
Family Member Program Analyst, Ms. LaToya Travis, 202-433-4597, latoya.travis 
(AT)navy.mil, and Supervisory Analyst, Ms. Angie Elting, 202-433-6750, 
angela.elting(AT)navy.mil.

7. This NAVADMIN will remain in effect until 15 June 2020.

8. Released by Vice Admiral M. M. Jackson, Commander, Navy Installations 
Command.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//

