UNCLASSIFIED//

ROUTINE

R 032109Z NOV 20 MID200000317921U

FM CNO WASHINGTON DC

TO NAVADMIN

INFO SECNAV WASHINGTON DC
CMC WASHINGTON DC
NAVNETWARCOM SUFFOLK VA

BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 296/20

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N2N6/NOV//

SUBJ/ COMMUNICATIONS SECURITY (COMSEC) MONITORING AND NOTIFICATION REPORTING 
GUIDANCE//

REF/A/INST/OPNAV/22MAY2020//
REF/B/INST/SECNAV/9MAY2019//
REF/C/INST/OPNAV/4APR2012//

NARR/REF A IS OPNAVINST 2201.3C - NAVY COMMUNICATIONS SECURITY MONITORING OF 
NAVY TELECOMMUNICATIONS AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY SYSTEMS.  
REF B IS SECNAVINST 3070.2A - DEPARTMENT OF THE NAVY OPERATIONS SECURITY 
INSTRUCTION.  
REF C IS OPNAVINST 5450.345 - MISSION, FUNCTIONS AND TASKS INSTRUCTION FOR 
U.S. FLEET CYBER COMMAND.

RMKS/1.  Communications Security (COMSEC) monitoring in the Navy is necessary 
in order to determine the degree of security provided to telecommunications 
and information technology (IT) systems, aid in countering their 
vulnerability to interception, technical exploitation, human intelligence 
threats, and other dimensions of foreign intelligence threats; and assess 
effectiveness of Operations Security (OPSEC) measures.   Reference (a) 
implements policy that all Navy information systems and telecommunications 
systems, including government issued cellular devices, are subject to 
monitoring.  This instruction can be obtained from the Department of the Navy 
(DON) issuance webpage at https://www.secnav.navy.mil/doni/opnav.aspx and 
should receive widest dissemination.  All hands must understand the 
importance of practicing OPSEC and protecting critical unclassified 
information (reference (b)) while operating on Navy communication networks 
and devices.

2.  Key elements of reference (a):
    a.  Commanding Officers and Unit Commanders are responsible for ensuring 
that their crews and subordinates are regularly notified that official 
Department of Defense (DoD) telecommunications and IT systems are subject to 
COMSEC monitoring at all times.
    b.  Consent to monitoring must be included in orientation briefings, 
daily bulletins or plans of the day/week, periodic training programs, and 
communications-electronic operating instructions or similar documents.
    c.  DoD telephones and IT systems are provided for the transmission of 
official government information and are automatically subject to COMSEC 
monitoring at all times.  Use of DoD telephones constitutes consent to COMSEC 
monitoring.  Discussion and transmission of classified information over non -
secure circuits is prohibited.
    d.  The standard consent banner, displayed upon logon to DoD IT systems, 
and user systems agreements (OPNAV 5239/14, System Access Authentication 
Request (SAAR)) also serve to provide notification of, and consent to, COMSEC 
monitoring.

3.  Report criteria and timelines:
    a.  Fleet maritime operations centers, Naval component commanders, and 
Echelon 2 commanders will provide a report to U.S. Fleet Cyber Command
(FLTCYBERCOM) by 1 July of even-numbered years to confirm that each 
subordinate command is in compliance with reporting procedures.
    b.  Subordinate Echelon 2 commanders will submit a consolidated report to 
FLTCYBERCOM by 1 July of even-numbered years to confirm that each subordinate 
command has complied with notification procedures.

4.  For the current reporting cycle only, the due date for reporting to 
FLTCYBERCOM has been extended to 30 November 2020.

5.  Report formats and submission:
    a.  The FLTCYBERCOM Points of Contact (POCs) identified in this message 
have developed two forms to assist commands in preparing and submitting their 
biennial reports.  The forms are available via email.
    b.  The first form is the template for navy organizations to provide 
specified information through their chain of command to their respective 
Echelon 2 command.
    c.  The second form is the template for fleet maritime operations 
centers, Naval component commanders, and Echelon 2 commands to report to 
FLTCYBERCOM.
    d.  Fleet maritime operations centers, Naval component commanders, and 
Echelon 2 commanders will forward completed forms by email to the FLTCYBERCOM 
POCs.  Per reference (c), FLTCYBERCOM has been assigned responsibility for 
COMSEC monitoring to include the aforementioned reporting requirements.

6.  Commands do not need to report information relating to the following
systems:  (1) Navy-Marine Corps Intranet (NMCI) NIPRNET and SIPRNET, (2) 
OCONUS Navy Enterprise Network (ONE-NET) NIPRNET and SIPRNET, and (3) 
Sensitive Compartmented Information (SCI) systems.

7.  Questions regarding the forms or the information required as part of the 
COMSEC monitoring and notification reporting requirements may be submitted to 
the FLTCYBERCOM POCs.

8.  The Echelon 2 Staff Judge Advocate or General Counsel shall review the 
reports from their subordinate organizations for legal sufficiency.

9.  OPSEC note:  OPSEC and COMSEC are mutually supportive.  While it is 
necessary to share, discuss, email or post information while using official 
Navy networks and platforms, the Navy also has a responsibility to protect 
our critical information.  Our adversaries are experts in aggregating pieces 
of unclassified information, often exploiting our mistakes or inadvertent 
disclosures of critical information from our open and unclassified networks.  
Proper application of OPSEC will help protect critical information while 
maintaining essential secrecy.  By virtue of being a military professional, 
it is all our responsibility to use the utmost care and caution to protect 
the interests of our nation and keep our teammates safe.  Think about this 
every time you use open systems or networks.

10.  FLTCYBERCOM POCs:
     a.  Mr. David Bailey, Counsel, telephone:  (240) 373-3394, email:
david.l.bailey7(at)navy.mil.
     b.  Captain Tony Miani, Fleet Judge Advocate, telephone:  (240) 373-
3402,
email:  wayne.a.miani(at)navy.mil.
     c.  Lieutenant Commander Kristi Bao, Assistant Fleet Judge Advocate,
telephone:  (240) 373-3358, email:  kristi.bao(at)navy.mil.
     d.  Ms. Towana Ayres, Legal Compliance Specialist, telephone:
(443) 479-3981, email:  towana.ayres(at)navy.mil.
     e.  Mr. Cameron Payne, Legal Compliance Specialist, telephone:
(443) 479-3868, email:  cameron.r.payne1(at)navy.mil.

11.  Released by VADM Jeffrey E. Trussler, Deputy Chief of Naval Operations 
for Information Warfare, OPNAV N2N6.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//


