UNCLASSIFIED 
ROUTINE 
R 171616Z MAR 22 MID600051619294U 
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC 
TO NAVADMIN 
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC 
BT 
UNCLAS 
 
NAVADMIN 069/22 
 
PASS TO OFFICE CODES: 
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1// 
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1// 
MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/MAR// 
 
SUBJ/FY-23 ACTIVE DUTY NAVY NUCLEAR LIMITED DUTY OFFICER IN SERVICE 
PROCUREMENT SELECTION BOARD RESULTS// 
 
REF/A/DOC/MANMED/22FEB18// 
AMPN/REF A IS NAVMED P 117, MANUAL OF MEDICAL DEPARTMENT.// 
 
RMKS/1.  Congratulations to selectees of the FY-23 Active Duty Navy 
Nuclear Limited Duty Officer (LDO) In-Service Procurement Board. 
 
2.  For LDO selectees, read name, commissioning month/year.  All 
appointments are effective on the first day of the commissioning 
month.  Members are directed to verify their select status via 
BUPERS Online. 
                   LIMITED DUTY OFFICER ENSIGN 
                      NUCLEAR POWER - 620X 
Carrillo, Michael A      1022     Isgar Anthony S              1022 
Patania Raymond A        1022     Smithburns Nicolas R         1022 
Thigpen Tyler J          1022     Whitley William D            1022 
Garcia Oliver R          1122     Giordano Christopher J       1122 
Hedberg Patrick J        1122     Pellowski Jacob J            1122 
Rossman Jonathan D       1122     Sanders David S              1122 
Coffman Dillon C         1222     Golden Matthew D             1222 
Helms Ryan P             1222     Holiday Joseph W             1222 
Young Jonathan D         1222     Zevenbergen Aaron J          1222 
Graeber Jacob A          0223     Johnson Andrew M             0223 
Lenzi David L            0223     Miller Dustin M              0223 
Lewis Cody A             0323     Matosfaro Fernando M         0323 
Saydyk Ian G             0323     Alley Nicholas D             0423 
Cawthon James C          0423     Humphrey Brent A             0423 
Peters Tyler W           0423     Tuohy Kevin J                0523 
Roten William B          0523     Portillo Matthew W           0523 
Allen Patrick J          0723     Carroll Thomas J             0723 
Dennis Mitchell L        0723     Engelhardt Zachary R         0723 
Ho Danny                 0723     Kelly Michael Cavanaugh      0723 
Walz William J           0723     Cates Nicholas L             0823 
Christensen Rigil K      0823     Downs Thomas C               0823 
Hadyka Lucas B           0823     Perez Chancemichael A        0823 
Polk Travis R E          0823     Zamagias Nicholas G          0823 
 
3.  Each applicant should take pride in knowing that the superior 
performance documented in the evaluations reviewed by the board 
required the members to dedicate long hours in making hard choices 
to ensure only the best and fully qualified applicants were 
selected.  I am confident that each selectee will justify their 
selection time and again in their new career as naval officers. 
Those not selected are highly encouraged to seek out an LDO/CWO in 
your area for advice on ways to grow professionally and improve 
opportunity for future selection.  Bravo Zulu to all who were 
willing to answer the call. 
 
4.  This message is not authority to issue appointments.  Frocking 
is prohibited.  COMNAVPERSCOM (PERS 806) will deliver appointments 
to MyNavy Career Center (MNCC) Millington approximately 60 days 
prior to the commissioning date.  MNCC will forward appointments to 
the Transaction Service Center (TSC) Great Lakes, who will 
distribute directly to the respective CPPAs.  TSC Great Lakes will 
also process the conversion from enlisted to officer status for 
LDOs, for all commands other than those who have the ability to 
process their own (CVN, SPECWAR, etc.).  TSC Great Lakes can be 
contacted directly at the below email address. 
 
5.  Commanding Officers are directed to: 
    a.  Notify selectee. 
    b.  Notify PERS 803 via official correspondence not later than 
10 days following release of this message of selectees who do not 
accept appointment.  Selectees who decline their commission within 
this 10 day period will be considered by the FY 23 Enlisted 
Selection Boards.  After the 10 day period, PERS 802 will invalidate 
all FY 23 Active Duty Navy Nuclear LDO In Service Procurement 
Selection Board selectees' eligibility for the FY 23 Active Duty 
Enlisted Selection Boards. 
    c.  Per reference (a), ensure LDO selectees obtain a 
commissioning physical within 90 days preceding the appointment 
month.  Notify the Nuclear LDO detailer (PERS 422B) upon completion. 
    d.  Hold execution of all permanent change of station orders in 
abeyance, if applicable and immediately notify PERS 40 of member's 
selection. 
    e.  Administer official physical fitness assessment (PFA) within 
4 months of commissioning date.  Selectees must hand carry test 
results to Officer Indoctrination School, Newport, RI.  If selectee 
fails to achieve satisfactory medium, notify Nuclear LDO detailer 
(PERS 422B).  Hold commissioning in abeyance until successful 
completion of PFA. 
    f.  Hold appointment in abeyance if it is determined that a 
selectee is no longer mentally, physically, morally or professional 
qualified or if they fail to meet current PFA requirements. 
Immediately forward documentation citing reason to PERS 803. 
 
6.  If a Nuclear LDO selectee's enlistment (including any 
extensions) expires after the date of appointment, they are not 
reenlistment eligible unless appointment is declined. 
 
7.  Each selectee should contact their Nuclear LDO officer detailer 
(PERS-422B) for submission requirements with regard to personal 
information and history cards, and inform PERS 806 of address 
changes to facilitate appointment delivery. 
 
8.  Points of Contact 
    a.  PERS 422B point of contact for Nuclear LDO In service 
Procurement Board, issues/questions is LT Karl Martin at (901) 874 
3938/DSN 882. 
    b.  PERS 806 point of contact for issuance of oath and 
commissioning documents issues/questions is Mr. Lee Eclavea, at 
(901) 874 4374/DSN 882 or email at officer_appt.fct(at)navy.mil. 
    c.  MNCC point of contact for distribution of oath and 
commissioning documents is askmncc(at)navy.mil. 
  d.  TSC Great Lakes point of contact for oath of office 
distribution and conversion questions is M GRLK TSCEOPP(at)navy.mil. 
 
9.  Released by VADM John B. Nowell, Jr, N1.// 
 
BT 
#0001 
NNNN 
UNCLASSIFIED//
