UNCLASSIFIED 
ROUTINE 
R 071522Z APR 22 MID200001642168U 
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC 
TO NAVADMIN 
CMC WASHINGTON DC 
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC 
BT 
UNCLAS 
 
NAVADMIN 091/22 
 
MSGID/NAVADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N2N6/APR// 
 
SUBJ/2022 NAVAL INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY AWARDS SOLICITATION// 
 
REF/A/DOC/OPNAV/06DEC17// 
REF/B/DOC/COMNAVIFORES/21DEC18// 
 
NARR/REF A IS OPNAVINST 1650.26E, NAVAL INTELLIGENCE AWARDS PROGRAM.  
REF B IS COMNAVIFORESINST 1650.4P, POLICY AND PROCEDURES GOVERNING MILITARY 
AWARDS AND RECOGNITION PROGRAM.// 
POC/GREWE/CIV/NIA-N1/EMAIL:  THOMAS.B.GREWE.CIV(AT)US.NAVY.MIL// 
POC/GUESS/CIV/NIA-N1/EMAIL:  MICHAEL.D.GUESS.CIV(AT)US.NAVY.MIL// 
 
RMKS/1.  Reference (a) is the Naval Intelligence Awards Program that 
recognizes excellence and outstanding achievement in Naval Intelligence, and 
covers recognition details for each award.  This NAVADMIN builds on guidance 
provided in references (a) and (b) and solicits nominations. 
    a.  Rear Admiral Thomas A. Brooks Intelligence Junior Officer of the Year 
    Award recognizes junior officers for their leadership, performance, 
special accomplishments, and overall contribution to command efficiency, 
morale, and welfare while serving on both sea and shore duty.  Active and 
Reserve Component Naval Intelligence officers (183X/683X) O-1 through O-3 are 
eligible.  Two Active or Reserve Component junior officers will be selected; 
one each for the sea duty and shore duty categories. 
    b.  Commander Dan F. Shanower Intelligence Specialist of the Year Award 
    recognizes Intelligence Specialists for their performance, leadership, 
special accomplishments, and overall contribution to command efficiency, 
morale, and welfare.  Active and Reserve Component Intelligence Specialists 
in pay grades E-1 through E-5 are eligible to compete for the Junior 
Intelligence Specialist of the Year award.  Active and Reserve Component 
Intelligence Specialists in pay grade E-6, including those frocked to E-6 
during the eligibility period, are eligible to compete for the Senior 
Intelligence Specialist of the Year award.  A total of four Active or Reserve 
Component Intelligence Specialists will be selected; one junior and one 
senior Intelligence Specialist of the Year for each of the sea duty and shore 
duty categories. 
    c.  Vice Admiral Rufus L. Taylor Award for Leadership recognizes 
leadership from deserving Active or Reserve Component officer, enlisted, or 
civilian personnel who exemplify excellence and exceptional dedication to 
duty within the Naval Intelligence Community.  Active and Reserve Component 
Naval Intelligence officers (183X/683X) in grades O-4 through O-6, 
Intelligence CWOs (783X) in grades CWO-3 through CWO-5, Intelligence 
Specialists in grades E-7 through E-9, and civilians GS-13 through GS-15 (or 
equivalent) are eligible.  Two candidates will be selected for this award; 
one Active or civilian candidate, and one Reserve Component candidate. 
    d.  Vice Admiral Rufus L. Taylor Award for Excellence in Intelligence 
Instruction recognizes Intelligence instructors who embody the time-honored 
principles which Vice Admiral Taylor exemplified throughout his 
career:  desire for professional knowledge, intellectual curiosity, 
initiative, enthusiasm, ability to command respect and motivate others, 
devotion to duty, effective communication skills, and personal and 
intellectual integrity.  Active and Reserve Component U.S. Navy and U.S. 
Marine Corps service members serving as instructors, faculty, or staff at 
Information Warfare Training Command (IWTC), Virginia Beach and IWTC, San 
Diego are eligible.  Two candidates will be selected; one each from IWTC, 
Virginia Beach and IWTC, San Diego. 
    e.  Rear Admiral Edwin T. Layton Award for Leadership and  Mentorship 
recognizes outstanding leadership and mentorship in the furtherance of Naval 
Intelligence performance.  Active and Reserve Component Naval Intelligence 
officers (183X/683X) in grades O-4 through O-6, Intelligence CWOs (783X) in 
grades CWO-3 through CWO-5, and Intelligence Specialists in grades E-6 
through E-9 are eligible.  There is no set number of awards to be given each 
year. 
    f.  Herman Dworkin Award for Maritime Analytic Excellence recognizes a 
civilian or military analyst working maritime issues who displays an 
exceptional work ethic and analytical expertise.  Active and Reserve 
Component Naval Intelligence officers (183X/683X) in grades O-3 through O-5, 
Intelligence CWOs (783X) in grades CWO-2 through CWO-5, and civilians GS-12 
through GS-14 (or equivalent) are eligible.  Nominees must have at least ten 
years of experience in the field of maritime intelligence analysis and be 
currently analytically active.  One candidate will be selected for this 
award. 
 
2.  The eligibility period for all intelligence awards is 1 January 2021 to 
31 December 2021. 
 
3.  Submission requirements are outlined in references (a) and 
(b).  Nomination packages must be unclassified, and should strictly follow 
the nomination template that is posted to the Navy Information Warfare 
Outreach page on MilSuite at https://www.milsuite.mil/book/docs/DOC-
244835 (Common Access Card email certificate login required).  This template 
accounts for all information and enclosures required per reference (a).  The 
template does not require the use of social security numbers or other 
sensitive Personally-Identifiable Information (PII).  Commands shall avoid 
including unnecessary PII in nomination packages.  Recent fitness reports, 
evaluations, or awards are not required in nomination packages and shall not 
be included in submissions. 
 
4.  Submission instructions.  All nomination packages must be submitted as a 
single .pdf file.  With two exceptions (listed below), the nominees current 
command must forward all award nomination packages to Mr. Thomas Grewe at 
thomas.b.grewe.civ(at)us.navy.mil via encrypted email.  Please copy Mr. 
Michael Guess at michael.d.guess.civ(at)us.navy.mil.  All emails must have 
the award name and last name of the nominee in the subject line.  If unable 
to send encrypted emails, utilize DoD Secure Access File Exchange (SAFE) 
website at https://safe.apps.mil/. 
    a.  Vice Admiral Rufus L. Taylor Award for Leadership, Reserve Component 
    nominations were solicited separately via ForceConnect and were due to 
    Commander, Naval Information Force Reserve (COMNAVIFORES) on 15 February 
    2022.  Questions regarding COMNAVIFORES Awards can be addressed to YNCS 
    Shergala Brockett at NIFR_ALL_AWARDS(at)navy.mil. 
    b.  Vice Admiral Rufus L. Taylor Award for Excellence in Intelligence 
    Instruction nominations.  Forward all packages to appropriate IWTC POCs 
via 
    encrypted email.  POC for IWTC, Virginia Beach is Mr. Larry Banks, 
    email:  larry.l.banks.civ(at)us.navy.mil.  POCs for IWTC, San Diego are     
LT Elizabeth Powers, email:  elizabeth.h.powers1(at)navy.mil and LT Jonathan 
    Hilzinger, email:  jonathan.j.hilzinger.mil(at)us.navy.mil. 
 
5.  All packages must be submitted no later than 60 days from the release 
date of this message. 
 
6.  Incomplete packages or packages failing to meet all guidance as outlined 
in this message and reference (a) will not be considered.  Late submissions 
will not be accepted.  Classified nomination packages will not be accepted. 
 
7.  Released by VADM Jeffrey E. Trussler, Deputy Chief of Naval Operations 
for Information Warfare, OPNAV N2N6.// 
 
BT 
#0001 
NNNN 
UNCLASSIFIED//
