CLASSIFICATION: UNCLASSIFIED//

ROUTINE

R 201406Z NOV 23 MID120000631208U

FM CNO WASHINGTON DC

TO NAVADMIN

INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC

BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 278/23

MSGID/NAVADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/CNO/NOV//

SUBJ/2023 THANKSGIVING MESSAGE//

RMKS/1.  Team Navy:  MCPON Honea and I wish you a very Happy Thanksgiving!

2.  This week, Americans around the world are celebrating this very important 
holiday.  No matter the location, Americans will gather with family and 
friends, break bread at the table, and give thanks for the many blessings we 
enjoy as a Nation.  Each of you - Sailor and civilian alike - underwrite many 
of those blessings, safeguarding our security and prosperity on the high 
seas.

3.  Right now, our Navy-Marine Corps team operates forward around the world 
and around the clock, providing options, flexibility, and decision space to 
our Nation's leaders.  They operate at the point of friction with our 
competitors and the point of friendship with our allies and partners in all 
domains from seabed to space.
And, right now, they are responding to crises, deterring would-be 
adversaries, safeguarding the world's sea lines of communication, and 
strengthening our maritime partnerships.  Together with our Marine Corps 
teammates, we are ready to fight and win today if called.  No Navy in the 
world can build, train, and deploy such a lethal combat-credible force. And, 
no Navy team can do what you do.

4.  During this Thanksgiving holiday, take time to reflect on our shared 
success, communicate our Navy story to our families, friends, and 
communities, and give thanks for our shipmates who are currently standing the 
watch. Take pride in all that we do and take care of yourself and each other.  
Because of you, our Navy is the preeminent fighting force on the seas.

5.  I am grateful for each and every one of you.  Your Navy and Nation are 
proud of you.  MCPON and I are honored to serve alongside you.  Please enjoy 
a wonderful and well-deserved Thanksgiving holiday - we'll see you in the 
Fleet!

6.  Released by ADM L. M. Franchetti, Chief of Naval Operations.//

BT
#0001
NNNN

CLASSIFICATION: UNCLASSIFIED//

