UNCLASSIFIED//

ROUTINE

R 221441Z DEC 20 MID200000461815U

FM CNO WASHINGTON DC

TO NAVADMIN

INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC

BT
UNCLAS
NAVADMIN 331/20

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N2N6/DEC//

SUBJ/NAVY SYSTEM AUTHORIZATION ACCESS REQUEST-NAVY (SAAR-N) RECIPROCITY//

REF/A/MEMO/DONCIO/25FEB18//

REF/B/INST/OPNAV/18JUL18//

NARR/REF A IS DEPARTMENT OF NAVY CHIEF INFORMATION OFFICER MEMORANDUM FOR 
ACCEPTBALE USE OF INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY.  
REF B IS OPNAVINST 5239.1D - INSTRUCTION FOR U.S. NAVY CYBERSECURITY 
PROGRAM.// 
POC1/SUSAN BRYERJOYNER/RMDL/OPNAV/N2N6D/EMAIL: SUSAN.BRYERJOYNER1(AT)NAVY.MIL
/TEL:  (571) 256-8422//
POC2/BROOKE ZIMMERMAN/CIV/OPNAV/N2N6D6/EMAIL:  BROOKE.ZIMMERMAN(AT)NAVY.MIL
/TEL:  (571) 256-8521//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN authorizes System Authorization Access Request-Navy 
(SAAR-N) reciprocity between Navy commands to streamline the network access 
process.  Per references (a) and (b), all Department of the Navy (DON) 
Information Technology (IT) users shall have an approved SAAR-N on file prior 
to being granted access to networks, systems or applications.  This allows 
acceptance of a SAAR-N issued by the current command of a user to approve 
access on another commands network, system, or application of the same or 
lower classification level and need-to-know status.

2.  Reciprocity is a mutual agreement among participating enterprises to 
accept each others security assessments in order to reuse IT resources and to 
accept each others assessed security posture to share capabilities.  Until a 
central repository is established for SAAR-N forms, commands will accept 
reciprocity at the command-level.

3.  Users who require access to systems that have additional need-to-know 
requirements or are of a higher level of security clearance than is reflected 
in the existing SAAR-N will require additional documentation or a new SAAR-N.

4.  This NAVADMIN will remain in effect until changes have been incorporated 
into OPNAVINST 5239.1D.

5.  Released by VADM Jeffrey E. Trussler, Deputy Chief of Naval Operations 
for Information Warfare, OPNAV N2N6.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//


