UNCLASSIFIED//

ROUTINE

R 211940Z OCT 20 MID200000248885U

FM CNO WASHINGTON DC

TO NAVADMIN

INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC

BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 282/20

PASS TO OFFICE CODES:
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/OCT//

SUBJ/NOTICE OF CONVENING FY-21 LEGAL COUNSEL TO THE CHAIRMAN OF THE JOINT 
CHIEFS OF STAFF SELECTION BOARD//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN announces the notice of the convening date for FY-21 
Legal Counsel to the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff (CJCS) selection 
board as 10 December 2020.  The following list indicates the name, active- 
duty list number and date of rank of the senior and junior officers on the 
active-duty list, who are eligible for consideration as of the release of 
this NAVADMIN.
Sr Eligible  Purnell, C.011349-501 SEP 01 Jr Eligible  Beran, M.016561-501 
DEC 17

2.  The following guidance is provided:  this board will recommend an officer 
for appointment as Legal Counsel to the CJCS.  The board will consider judge 
advocates from the Army, Navy, Air Force and Marine Corps.  No weight will be 
given to branch of service or source of commission.

3.  The officer selected as Legal Counsel to the CJCS should have significant 
joint experience, defined as:  having completed at least one year in the 
grade of O-4 through O-6 on the joint staff, a combatant command, the Office 
of the Secretary of Defense, a Joint Task Force (JTF) or a Defense Agency.
Other significant joint duty while assigned to a JTF may be calculated 
cumulatively, including assignments to joint individual augmentation 
(IA)/overseas contingency operations (previously referred to as Global War on 
Terrorism support assignment) billets.

4.  Eligible officers not wanting to be considered by this board are strongly 
encouraged to submit a request to the President of the FY-21 Legal Counsel to 
the CJCS selection board as directed below, indicating the desire that their 
record not be considered.  Such requests may be submitted via e-mail to PERS- 
4416B (CDR Phil Chockley, JAGC, USN) at the e-mail listed in paragraph 7 
below.  Officers submitting requests not to be considered will not be 
eligible and their records will not be presented to the board for 
consideration.

5.  A summary of joint duty experience of each eligible officer will be 
considered by the board.  The joint duty experience summary form will be 
provided to individual eligible officers by separate correspondence.  All 
eligible officers who do not request non-consideration will be required to 
populate the joint duty experience summary document and submit to PERS-4416B 
(CDR Phil Chockley, JAGC, USN) via e-mail no later than 4 November 2020.

6.  Upon approval by the President of the United States, the officer selected 
will be appointed to the permanent grade of brigadier general or rear admiral 
(lower half).

7.  Only eligible officers may communicate with a selection board.  All 
correspondence must arrive not later than 4 November 2020, and shall be 
addressed to CDR Phil Chockley at the e-mail or mailing address below (e-mail
preferred):
    Navy Personnel Command (PERS-4416B)
    Attn: CDR Phil Chockley, JAGC, USN
    5720 Integrity Drive
    Millington, TN 38055-4416
    E-mail: phillip.chockley@navy.mil
Written communication may call to the attention of the board any matter 
concerning himself/herself which the officer considers important.  The 
written communication may include, as enclosures, correspondence from any 
individual concerning the eligible officer.  Correspondence not originated by 
the eligible officer, including endorsements to the officer's letter and 
letters written on behalf of that officer, must contain a written 
acknowledgement by the eligible officer that he or she desires such 
correspondence be presented to the board.  Correspondence without such 
acknowledgement is considered third party correspondence and will be 
returned.  Classified correspondence will not be accepted.

8.  Released by Vice Admiral John B. Nowell, Jr, N1.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//


