UNCLASSIFIED// 
ROUTINE 
R 252135Z MAY 21 MID200000887015U 
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC 
TO NAVADMIN 
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC 
BT 
UNCLAS 
 
NAVADMIN 104/21 
 
PASS TO OFFICE CODES: 
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1// 
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1// 
MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/MAY// 
 
SUBJ/SEPTEMBER 2021 (CYCLE 252) ACTIVE-DUTY AND FULL-TIME SUPPORT E-4 THROUGH 
E-6 PETTY OFFICER NAVY-WIDE ADVANCEMENT EXAMINATIONS// 
 
REF/A/DOC/BUPERS/19SEP18// 
REF/B/MSG/SECNAV WASHINGTON DC/052044ZMAR13// 
REF/C/MSG/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/201449ZDEC18// 
REF/D/MSG/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/161157ZJUL20// 
REF/E/MSG/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/272057ZDEC18// 
 
NARR/REF A IS BUPERSINST 1430.16G, ADVANCEMENT MANUAL FOR ENLISTED PERSONNEL 
OF THE U.S. NAVY AND U.S. NAVY RESERVE.   
REF B IS ALNAV 015/13, PERSONNEL SECURITY INVESTIGATION SUBMISSION 
REQUIREMENTS. 
REF C IS NAVADMIN 312/18, ADVANCEMENT POLICY UPDATE.   
REF D IS NAVADMIN 201/20, PROFESSIONAL MILITARY KNOWLEDGE ELIGIBILITY EXAM 
REVISED BUSINESS RULES.   
REF E IS NAVADMIN 316/18, ENLISTED ADVANCEMENT WORKSHEET.// 
 
RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN announces the guidance for the administration 
of the September 2021 (cycle 252) Navy-Wide Advancement Exam (NWAE) 
for advancement-in-rate of Active Duty (AD) and Full-Time Support 
(FTS) Sailors to paygrades E-5 and E-6 and the use of an alternative 
final multiple score (FMS) rank-order method, without an exam, for 
E-4 advancement candidates. 
    a.  As a continued safety measure due to the coronavirus disease 
2019 (COVID-19) outbreak, E-4 advancement candidates will not 
participate in the NWAE, but will be given the opportunity for 
advancement using an alternative FMS rank-order method, without the 
inclusion of an exam score from a proctored exam.  E-5 and E-6 
advancement candidates will be administered the NWAE utilizing 
testing windows vice single-day testing.  These expanded testing 
windows will allow for smaller groups of test takers to ensure 
adequate social distancing can be maintained between testers at 
testing facilities, while maintaining the high standards and 
continued culture of learning that drive our enlisted advancement 
system.  This is identical to the advancement policy used in the 
2021 spring NWAE cycle, and is a change from reference (a). 
    b.  In addition to the requirements in this NAVADMIN and chapter 
6 of reference (a), educational services officers (ESO) must follow 
the pre-exam preparation requirements in the exam verbatim, which 
can be found on the navy enlisted advancement system (NEAS) website 
via MyNavy Portal (MNP) at 
https://www.mnp.navy.mil/group/advancement-and-promotion/command- 
information. 
 
2.  Timeline 
    a.  31 July 2021:  Professional military knowledge - eligibility 
exam (PMK-EE) completion date. 
    b.  1-16 September 2021:  E-6 exam administration.  Enlisted 
advancement worksheets (EAW) will close one week after the exam 
date on the worksheet. 
    c.  17-30 September 2021:  E-5 exam administration.  EAWs will 
close one week after the exam date on the worksheet. 
    d.  E-4 exams are cancelled, but E-4 EAWs must be completed by 
30 September 2021. 
 
3.  Eligibility requirements are found in chapter 2 of reference 
(a).  The following information is specific only to cycle 252: 
    a.  The terminal eligibility date used to compute time-in-rate 
(TIR) is 1 January 2022. 
    b.  The minimum TIR date must be on or before: 
        E-6 - 1 January 2019 
        E-5 - 1 January 2021 
        E-4 - 1 July 2021 
    c.  E-6 candidate TIR requirements for early promote Sailors can 
be waived by one year with the commanding officer (CO)/officer-in- 
charge (OIC) approval, in line with paragraph 214.e of reference 
(a). 
    d.  High-year tenure (HYT) date must be effective 1 January 2022 
or later.  All HYT waivers must be approved prior to 1 September 
2021 to be able to participate in cycle 252. 
    e.  Candidates in a rating requiring a security clearance must 
have a favorable investigation adjudication by the Department of 
Defense Central Adjudication Facility reflected properly in the 
Defense Information System for Security (DISS) prior to 1 September 
2021.  If the CO of the candidate grants an interim clearance, it 
must be entered in DISS prior to 1 September 2021.  Candidates must 
maintain security clearance eligibility throughout the advancement 
cycle to be eligible for advancement.  If, for any reason, a 
clearance is denied, revoked or not reflected in DISS, an exam is 
not authorized and commands will not allow candidates to take the 
exam until the discrepancy is corrected or a new clearance is 
granted and is properly reflected in the EAW of the candidate. 
Ratings requiring a security clearance are AC, AE, AG, AO, ATI, ATO, 
AWF, AWO, AWR, AWS, AWV, AZ, CTI, CTM, CTN, CTR, CTT, EOD, ET, FC, 
FCA, GM, HT, IC, IS, IT, LN, MA, MC, MN, ND, OS, QM, SB, SO, STG, 
YN, and all nuclear and submarine ratings.  Refer to references (a) 
and (b) for additional guidance. 
    f.  Candidates for advancement to E-4 and E-5 must compute 
performance mark average (PMA) using all applicable evaluations in 
the current pay grade with an ending date that falls within the 
following time periods: 
        E-4 - 1 January 2021 to 31 August 2021 
        E-5 - 1 June 2020 to 31 August 2021 
    g.  Candidates for advancement to E-6 must compute the reporting 
senior cumulative average (RSCA) PMA, as outlined in reference (c), 
using all applicable evaluations in the current pay grade with the 
ending date that falls within the time period: 
        E-6 - 1 September 2018 to 31 August 2021 
    h.  Refer to reference (c) and paragraph 308.b. of reference (a) 
for additional guidance on RSCA PMA and PMA, including guidance on 
establishing PMA for new accessions that have graduated from *A* 
school and do not have a current evaluation. 
    i.  PMK-EE is mandatory for candidates to participate in the 
cycle 252 advancement cycle, even if no exam is being administered, 
and must be successfully completed once for the administration 
paygrade, in accordance with reference (d).  The completion deadline 
is 31 July 2021 and no Sailor should be permitted to participate in 
the advancement cycle without having a completed PMK-EE for the 
administration paygrade captured in EAW. 
    j.  For guidance on establishing EAW user roles and completing 
worksheets, refer to reference (e).  EAW is mandatory for cycle 252 
and will be the authority for PMA, RSCA PMA, and awards. 
    k.  Commands must accurately validate, complete and finalize all 
E-4 EAWs in the Navy Standard Integrated Personnel System in a 
timely manner.  EAW accuracy is critical since NEAS will be 
reprogrammed to use finalized EAWs rather than the candidate exam 
answer sheets to create E-4 candidate records.  The success of this 
process will be dependent upon the accurate completion of E-4 EAWs 
to establish advancement cycle participation.  Cycle 252 E-4 EAWs 
must be completed by 30 September 2021. 
 
4.  Exam Ordering.  Order exams in line with chapter 4 of reference 
(a). 
    a.  Deploying commands and candidates departing to 
Congressionally-designated combat zones and approved contingency 
operations areas (CDCZ/ACOA) can order exams up to six months prior 
to the scheduled exam date.  For additional guidance, refer to 
chapter 4 and paragraph 614 of reference (a). 
    b.  Regular Exams: 
        (1) Sensitive compartmented information (SCI) Exams. 
Cryptologic-technician interpretive (CTI)/cryptologic-technician 
network (CTN)/cryptologic technician-collection (CTR) SCI exam 
ordering dates can be found on the NEAS website via MNP at 
https://www.mnp.navy.mil/group/advancement-and-promotion/my- 
advancement.  ESOs must verify initial Active TIR eligibility lists 
on the NEAS website for exam ordering.  Supplemental TIR SCI exams 
are ordered via preferred message formatted e-mail to 
sfly_cryptologic.products(at)navy.mil or naval message following the 
guidelines in chapter 4 of reference (a).  The deadline for ordering 
additional TIR SCI exams is 9 June 2021. 
        (2) Non-SCI Exams.  ESOs must verify TIR eligibility lists 
on the NEAS website during the following time periods: 
            (a) Initial TIR lists will be available: 
                E-6 - 8 June 2021 to 6 July 2021 
                E-5 - 8 June 2021 to 18 July 2021 
            (b) Supplemental TIR lists will be available: 
                E-6 - 7 July 2021 to 8 August 2021 
                E-5 - 19 July 2021 to 15 August 2021 
        (3) Exams ordered after the TIR lists have closed shall be 
ordered using preferred message formatted e-mail to 
sfly_N321_exam_order(at)navy.mil or naval message following 
guidelines in chapter 4 of reference (a).  Ensure a point of contact 
is included in the submitted e-mail or message.  Orders submitted 
after supplemental TIR list closure will result in a substitute exam 
being sent. 
    c.  Substitute Exams: 
        (1) The deadline for ordering both SCI and non-SCI 
substitute exams is 30 September 2021. 
        (2) Naval Education and Training Professional Development 
Center (NETPDC (N321)) is the approval authority for all substitute 
exams. 
        (3) Recent graduates of the Naval Nuclear Propulsion Program 
training pipeline, who are on transfer leave in route to their first 
at-sea assignment during the E-5 examination dates, will have 
substitute examinations ordered for them by their ultimate duty 
station, if dates permit exam ordering before the published 
deadline. 
        (4) Substitute examinations may be administered with regular 
exam administration or in line with paragraph 606 of reference (a). 
    d.  ESOs must verify examination orders at the *View Previous 
Exam Orders* link via the NEAS website within 7 to 10 days of 
placing the order.  If exam order discrepancies are noted, contact 
the Fleet Services Branch NETPDC (N321) as listed on the NEAS 
website on the NETPDC (N321) point of contact table. 
    e.  Exceptions to policy for exam orders will continue to be 
submitted in line with reference (a), and must include endorsement 
by the immediate superior in command. 
    f.  Candidates in the following ratings are separated into the 
following competitive groups: 
        (1) CTI 
            Group 1  Middle East/North Africa 
            Group 2  East/Far East 
            Group 3  Latin/South America 
            Group 4  Eastern Europe 
        (2) EMN, ETN, and MMN 
            Group 1  Submarine 
            Group 2  Surface 
            Group 3  Training 
 
5.  Exam Administration and Answer Sheet Returns 
    a.  Administration windows for AD and FTS E-5 and E-6 exams. 
These exams will be administered utilizing testing windows in the 
month of September 2021.  E-6 exams will take place from 1 through 
16 September 2021 and E-5 exams will take place from 17 through 30 
September 2021.  Every effort should be made to spread the 
administration of the exams evenly throughout the exam 
administration period, in order to minimize the number of exam- 
takers at any one administration to ensure maximum social 
distancing.  Administration for all substitute exams will follow 
guidelines in references (a) and (c). 
    b.  All commands should develop a plan to meet COVID-19 
mitigations.  Every effort should be made to ensure appropriate 
COVID-19 mitigation measures are in place, to include, but not 
limited to, face coverings if not fully immunized (two weeks beyond 
final dose), adequate social distancing, available hand sanitizer, 
medical (questionnaire) screenings, and temperature checks. 
    c.  To the maximum extent practicable, exams for the same 
ratings should be administered on the same day.  Sailors are 
directed not to discuss exam content after taking an exam to ensure 
no advancement candidate is disadvantaged in the advancement 
process.  Unauthorized disclosure of exam content may result in 
administrative and/or disciplinary action. 
    d.  Following the administration of exams, it is critical that 
ESOs expeditiously mail E-5 and E-6 answer sheet packages to NETPDC 
(N321).  Do not hold exams until the end of the testing window. 
Prompt return of answer sheets will help ensure results are released 
in a timely manner. 
    e.  For exam administration and answer sheet return instructions 
refer to chapter 6 of reference (a). 
    f.  ESOs must check the exam tote board on the NEAS website 
often to ensure answer sheets have been received and processed.  The 
tote board can be accessed via MNP at 
https://www.mnp.navy.mil/group/advancement-and-promotion/command- 
information.  Answer sheets that are in error will not be counted 
until they are processed successfully. 
 
6.  Discrepancy Correction 
    a.  A detailed discrepancy list can be found at the NEAS website 
via MNP.  For guidance on discrepancy correction requirements, refer 
to chapters 3 and 7 of reference (a). 
    b.  Post-exam administration discrepancy correction 
correspondence with NETPDC (N321) is to be submitted using the EAW 
post-exam administration comments (PAC) function, refer to reference 
(e).  All corrections must have a CO/OIC letter and supporting 
documentation included as attachments.  Education point corrections 
require a submission of a screen shot of the joint service 
transcript display indicating the degree type and date of 
completion. 
     c.  For guidance on E-4 through E-6 candidates with missed 
exams due to assignment in CDCZ/ACOA, refer to chapter 6 of 
reference (a). 
 
7.  Examination Results.  Refer to chapter 7 of reference (a). 
 
8.  Any additional information regarding this cycle will be posted 
on the NEAS website. 
 
9.  Points of Contact. 
    a.  MyNavy Career Center (MNCC) is available 24/7 by phone at 
1-833-330-6622 or via e-mail at askmncc(at)navy.mil. 
    b.  SCI exam questions and orders can be reached at (850) 473- 
5867/DSN 753 or via e-mail at sfly_cryptologic.products(at)navy.mil. 
    c.  Non-SCI exam questions and orders can be reached at (850) 
473-6148/DSN 753 or via e-mail at sfly_N321_exam_order(at)navy.mil. 
    d.  NWAE records and discrepancies can be reached at (850) 473- 
6148/DSN 753 or via the EAW PAC function. 
 
10.  For further NEAS information, to include exam verbatim and 
other related documents, visit MNP at 
https://www.mnp.navy.mil/group/advancement-and-promotion/command- 
information. 
 
11.  This NAVADMIN will remain in effect until superseded or 
canceled, whichever occurs first. 
 
12.  Released by Rear Admiral James P. Waters, N13.// 
 
BT 
#0001 
NNNN 
UNCLASSIFIED//
