CLASSIFICATION: UNCLASSIFIED//

ROUTINE

R 201636Z DEC 22 MID200080606757U

FM CNO WASHINGTON DC

TO NAVADMIN

INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC

BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 286/22

PASS TO OFFICE CODES:
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/DEC//

SUBJ/CALENDAR YEAR 2022 SPIRIT OF HOPE AND ZACHARY AND ELIZABETH FISHER 
DISTINGUISHED CIVILIAN HUMANITARIAN AWARD NOMINATIONS//

REF/A/DOC/DOD/10JAN13//
REF/B/DOC/SECNAV/15MAY98//

NARR/REF A IS DODINST 1005.14, THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE SPIRIT OF HOPE (SOH) 
AWARD.  
REF B IS SECNAVINST 5061.16A, ZACHARY AND ELIZABETH FISHER DISTINGUISHED 
CIVILIAN HUMANITARIAN AWARD.//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN announces the call for nominations and selection 
process for the annual Spirit of Hope (SOH) Award and Zachary and Elizabeth 
Fisher Distinguished Civilian Humanitarian Award.  Nominations are due no 
later than 17 March 2023.

2.  Each year, we have the opportunity to honor worthy supporters 
(individuals or organizations) with two awards, the SOH Award (Navy
recipient) and the Zachary and Elizabeth Distinguished Civilian Humanitarian 
Award (Department of Defense recipient).  Both awards are named in honor of 
legendary supporters of our Service Members and families.

3.  The SOH award is presented to individuals or organizations that embody 
the core values of Mr. Bob Hope, who gave generously to military men and 
women for five decades.  The Fisher award recognizes private sector 
individuals or organizations that demonstrate exceptional patriotism and 
humanitarian service for Service Members of the U.S. Armed Forces or their 
families as inspired by Zachary and Elizabeth Fisher, founders of the Fisher 
Houses (one of their many contributions to assist military members and 
veterans).

4.  All nomination packages will be considered for both awards (if eligible).
Submit nomination packages to Deputy Chief of Naval Operations (Personnel, 
Manpower, and Training) (N1) via command channels.  Nominations must be 
received no later than 17 March 2023.  Completed packages (following final
endorsement) may be scanned and forwarded via encrypted e-mail to Ms. Millie 
King, 21st Century Sailor Office (OPNAV N17), at 
millie.m.king.civ(at)us.navy.mil.

5.  Nomination package content shall, at a minimum, include a two page 
double-spaced summary of contributions or statement of justification, 
biography (or organization history), supporting documentation, and a 
forwarding nomination letter or e-mail from the sponsoring command.

6.  The criteria for the SOH Award is detailed in reference (a).  The 
criteria for the Zachary and Elizabeth Fisher Distinguished Civilian 
Humanitarian Award is detailed in reference (b).

7.  Additional information about the SOH and Fisher Award including a 
nomination template can be found on the Navy Personnel Command website via 
MyNavy Portal at https://www.mynavyhr.navy.mil/Support-Services/21st-Century-
Sailor/Family-Readiness/Spirit-of-Hope-Award/ under the 21st Century Sailor 
tab, Family Readiness, then Spirit of Hope Award.

8.  The award recipients will be announced via Navy news story.

9.  Released by Vice Admiral Richard J. Cheeseman, Jr., N1.//

BT
#0001
NNNN

CLASSIFICATION: UNCLASSIFIED//

