UNCLASSIFIED//

ROUTINE

R 071825Z OCT 20 MID200000204008U

FM CNO WASHINGTON DC

TO NAVADMIN

INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC

BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 273/20

MSGID/NAVADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N2N6/OCT//

SUBJ/FISCAL YEAR 2020 OCEANOGRAPHER OF THE NAVY AWARD NOMINATIONS//

REF/A/INST/OPNAV/20JUN19//

AMPN/REF A IS OPNAVINST 1650.37A-NAVAL OCEANOGRAPHY AWARD PROGRAM WHICH 
ESTABLISHES AWARDS TO RECOGNIZE OUTSTANDING ACHIEVEMENT IN THE FIELD OF NAVAL 
OCEANOGRAPHY// POC/MONTGOMERY/CAPT/OPNAV N2N6E/TEL:  (703) 614-1864/
EMAIL:  CHRISTI.MONTGOMERY(AT)NAVY.MIL//

RMKS/1.  The Naval Oceanography Awards program was established to recognize 
outstanding achievement in the field of Naval Oceanography by Officers, Chief 
Petty Officers, and civilians.  The award is sponsored by the Oceanographer 
of the Navy per reference (a).

2.  Award criteria and eligibility.  One awardee will be selected for each of 
the following awards:
    a.  The Captain Richard C. Steere Award recognizes junior officers afloat 
or ashore for their leadership, performance, special accomplishments, and 
expert application of the meteorology and oceanography sciences.  U.S. Navy 
Active and Reserve Officers in the paygrades of O1-O3 with designators of 
1800/6800 are eligible.
    b.  The Commander Mary Sears Award recognizes mid-grade officers who 
demonstrate sustained superior performance, outstanding leadership ability, 
personal initiative, cooperation and adaptability, outstanding military 
bearing, and exemplary military and professional conduct.  U.S. Navy Active 
and Reserve Officers in the paygrade of O4 with designators of 1800/6800 are 
eligible.
    c.  The Chief Aerographers Mate John Dungan Jr. Award recognizes Navy 
senior enlisted in the oceanography community, afloat or ashore, for their 
leadership, performance, special accomplishments, and expertise in 
forecasting and analysis in the applied sciences of meteorology and 
oceanography in support of fleet operations.  U.S. Navy Active and Reserve 
component Chief and Senior Chief Petty Officer Aerographers Mates are 
eligible.
    d.  The Matthew Henson Award recognizes Naval Oceanography civilian 
employees for their leadership, performance, special accomplishments, and 
expert application of the meteorology and oceanography sciences in support of 
Naval operations.  Department of the Navy civilian employees at or below the 
grade of GS13 are eligible.

3.  Nominations.  The period of eligibility is from 1 October 2019 to
30 September 2020.  Nomination packages should be submitted as specified in 
reference (a).  Nomination packages must be unclassified and submitted on 
command letterhead via scan and email (preferred) or letter mail.  Email 
submissions must be received by CAPT Christi Montgomery at 
christi.montgomery(at)navy.mil no later than (NLT) 30 October 2020.  Letter 
mail submissions must be postmarked NLT 26 October 2020.  The Oceanographer 
of the Navy and Commander, Naval Meteorology and Oceanography Command will 
convene a joint board consisting of their respective Technical Directors, 
Senior Enlisted Advisor/Command Master Chief, Executive Assistant/Chief of 
Staff, and others (as appropriate) who will select awardees based upon the 
above criteria and content of the respective nomination packages.  Nomination 
packages must
include:
    a.  Name/Rank or Grade;
    b.  Job title, pay plan, and occupation code organization and location;
    c.  Date of commission/promotion history (Officer) or pay entry base 
date/advancement history (Enlisted);
    d.  Active duty assignments/employment (inclusive dates/in reverse 
chronological order);
    e.  Significant prior awards (personal, service, campaign/in reverse 
chronological order);
    f.  Education (year, degree, school, major field of study);
    g.  Command letter of endorsement;
    h.  Significant accomplishments in the past year (bullet format);
    i.  One page biography (include membership in professional or scientific 
societies, civic organizations, etc.);

4.  Recognition.  The Oceanographer of the Navy will announce the award by 
message and will recognize the awardee in person or via their Commanding 
Officer.

5.  Released by VADM Jeffrey E. Trussler, Deputy Chief of Naval Operations 
for Information Warfare, OPNAV N2N6.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//


