UNCLASSIFIED// 
ROUTINE 
R 211343Z OCT 20 MID200000247739U 
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC 
TO NAVADMIN 
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC 
BT 
UNCLAS 
 
NAVADMIN 281/20 
 
PASS TO OFFICE CODES: 
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1// 
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1// 
MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/OCT// 
 
SUBJ/ENLISTED APPLICATIONS BEING ACCEPTED BY NAVY FLIGHT DEMONSTRATION 
SQUADRON (BLUE ANGELS) FOR 2022// 
 
REF/A/DOC/COMNAVPERSCOM/27APR07// 
NARR/REF A IS MILPERSMAN ARTICLE 1306-919, NAVY FLIGHT DEMONSTRATION 
SQUADRON.// 
 
RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN announces requirements and solicits enlisted 
applications for the Navy Flight Demonstration Squadron (Blue 
Angels).  Applications must be postmarked no later than 1 May 2021. 
Selection results will be available no later than June 2021. 
Personnel with a projected rotation date of October 2021 through 
April 2022 are eligible, but others may apply with command and 
detailer approval.  Personnel selected will detach from their 
present command in September 2021 and report in mid-October 2021. 
 
2.  There are open E5/E6 billets within the following Navy ratings: 
AD, AM, AE, AS, AT, AZ, HM(NEC L04A), PR, MC, NC, LS and YN. 
Additionally, Chief Petty Officer applications are being accepted 
for ATCS, ADCS, AMC, AEC and MCC.  Platform specific experience is 
not a requirement to apply. 
 
3.  Personnel selected for this unique and demanding duty represent 
the hundreds of thousands of Sailors and Marines serving throughout 
the United States and abroad.  Applicants must meet the requirements 
listed below to be considered for duty with the Blue Angels (waivers 
are not normally considered). 
    a.  Must not be in receipt of permanent change of station orders 
before final selections are made in June 2021. 
    b.  No non-judicial punishment or courts-martial convictions in 
the last 36 months. 
    c.  No alcohol-related incidents (civil or military) in the last 
36 months.  Driving under the influence/driving while intoxicated 
convictions within the last 5 years are disqualifying. 
    d.  No financial instability/command directed counseling in the 
last 36 months.  Applicants must be eligible for a government credit 
card (this cannot be waived). 
    e.  No physical fitness assessment failures in the last 36 
months.  Personnel who have had medical waivers in the last 24 
months will be considered on a case-by-case basis only. 
    f.  Re-enlistment approval is not required to submit an 
application. 
 
4.  Interested candidates meeting the above requirements must first 
submit a fully completed Enlisted Personnel Action Request (NAVPERS 
1306/7) and Special Program Screening Form (NAVPERS 1306/92) as 
directed in MILPERSMAN 1306-919 to their respective rating detailer 
via their commanding officer (CO).  After submission of NAVPERS 
1306/7 and NAVPERS 1306/92 to their detailer, applicants must submit 
an application to the Blue Angels using the following criteria 
(ensure all telephone numbers, mailing addresses and e-mail 
addresses are included). 
    a.  CO signed letter of endorsement on command letterhead, which 
must include:  a statement on military appearance and tattoos, an 
evaluation of the Service Members public speaking ability, 
demeanor, professional knowledge and leadership skills. 
    b.  Copy of NAVPERS 1306/7 
    c.  Original NAVPERS 1306/92 
    d.  Copies of last five evaluations 
    e.  Official 5 x 7 inch photograph (front, side, back) in 
enlisted service uniform uncovered (Khakis for E7-E9 applicants) 
    f.  Completed applicant personal questionnaire and supply 
information sheet located on the Blue Angels website at: 
https://www.blueangels.navy.mil/join/. 
    g.  Common application errors include:  lack of detailed contact 
information, unsigned NAVPERS 1306/7 and NAVPERS 1306/92, NAVPERS 
1306/7 not sent to the detailer, no commanding officer endorsement, 
missing evaluations, photos not included, packages sent to the 
detailer rather than the Blue Angels and earliest and latest 
transfer dates not filled out in remarks section NAVPERS 1306/7. 
 
5.  Enlisted Applications may be sent via e-mail to, or by mail to: 
    Commanding Officer 
    Navy Flight Demonstration Squadron 
    Attn:  AMC(AW) Gregory Ogle 
    390 San Carlos Road Suite A 
    Pensacola, FL 32508-5508 
    Email:  gregory.w.ogle@navy.mil 
 
6.  The medical record of the applicant will be reviewed during the 
application process. 
 
7.  Candidates should contact the Blue Angels two weeks after 
mailing their application to verify receipt and to schedule an 
interview.  Interviews are conducted at Naval Air Facility El 
Centro, CA, from January to March.  Interviews are conducted at 
Naval Air Station Pensacola, FL, or any show site from 8 April - 14 
May 2021.  The last week to interview will be 9-14 May 2021.  All 
personnel currently stationed in the continental United States 
(CONUS), to include those who may be deployed and will return prior 
to final selection, are highly encouraged to interview in person. 
In-person interviews should be scheduled for a Service Member Monday 
through Saturday in El Centro.  If interviewing in Pensacola, please 
schedule the interview between the Sunday through Thursday 
timeframe.  Funding for travel is provided by the Service Member or 
their parent command.  Blue Angels do not provide funding for 
interviews.  Personnel permanently assigned OCONUS (including Hawaii 
and Alaska) or while deployed will interview via telephone. 
 
8.  Those individuals not selected will be afforded the opportunity 
of one MyNavy Assignment application. 
 
9.  Point of contact is AMC Gregory Ogle at (760) 339-2434/DSN 658 
(from 7 January 2021 to 14 March 2021) or at (850) 452-4736/DSN 922 
(after 15 March 2021) or via e-mail at gregory.w.ogle@navy.mil.  For 
further information, visit the Blue Angels web site at: 
www.blueangels.navy.mil. 
 
10.  This NAVADMIN will remain in effect until superseded or 
canceled, whichever occurs first. 
 
11.  Released by Vice Admiral John B. Nowell, Jr., N1.// 
 
BT 
#0001 
NNNN 
UNCLASSIFIED//
