UNCLASSIFIED//

ROUTINE

R 152124Z JAN 21 MID200000559884U

FM CNO WASHINGTON DC

TO NAVADMIN

INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC

BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 013/21

PASS TO OFFICE CODES:
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/JAN//

SUBJ/FY-22 ACTIVE DUTY AND RESERVE ENLISTED ADVANCEMENT SELECTION BOARDS FOR 
MASTER CHIEF AND SENIOR CHIEF PETTY OFFICER//

REF/A/DOC/BUPERS/19SEP18//
REF/B/DOC/COMNAVPERSCOM/14JUN18//
REF/C/MSG/CNO WASHINGTON DC/271415ZSEP19//

NARR/REF A IS BUPERSINST 1430.16G, ADVANCEMENT MANUAL FOR ENLISTED PERSONNEL 
OF THE U.S. NAVY AND U.S. NAVY RESERVE.  
REF B IS MILPERSMAN 1220-040, SUBMARINE QUALIFICATIONS DESIGNATION FOR 
ENLISTED MEMBERS.  
REF C IS NAVADMIN 220/19, ELECTRONIC SUBMISSION OF LETTERS TO PROMOTION AND 
SELECTION BOARD THOUGH MYNAVY PORTAL.//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN provides guidance for eligibility and communication to 
the boards for the Fiscal Year (FY) 2022 Active- Duty and Reserve Enlisted 
Advancement Selection Boards for Master Chief and Senior Chief Petty Officer 
(cycle 249).  The Reserve Component (RC) board will consider personnel 
serving on Active-Duty as Full-Time Support (FTS) and Selected Reserve 
(SELRES), to include those serving on voluntary and involuntary recall and 
mobilization orders.  Mobilized individual ready reserve (IRR) personnel are 
considered under the SELRES requirements for advancement.

2.  Timeline
    a.  December 2020.  Commander, Navy Personnel Command (PERS-802) compiled 
and submitted initial time-in-rate (TIR) eligibility list of candidates to 
the Naval Education and Training Professional Development Center (NETPDC) 
(N321).
    b.  January 2021.  Examination status verification reports
(ESVR) will be available on the Navy enlisted advancement system
(NEAS) website via MyNavy Portal (MNP) at 
https://www.mnp.navy.mil/group/navy-advancement-center/my-eso.

3.  RC E-8 and E-9 Timeline
    a.  8 February 2021.  E-8 through E-9 candidates change of rating request 
must be approved and reflect the new rating in the Inactive Manpower and 
Personnel Management Information System
(IMAPMIS) in order to be considered as a candidate in the new rating.
    b.  5 April 2021.  Letter to the board (LTB) deadline.
    c.  19 April 2021.  E-8 through E-9 selection board convenes.
All eligibility requirements, to include any waivers, must have final 
approval and be posted to the candidates records prior to this date.
    d.  30 April 2021.  E-8 through E-9 selection board scheduled to adjourn.

4.  Active Component (AC) E-8 and E-9 Timeline
    a.  1 March 2021.  Candidates change of rating request must be approved 
and reflect the new rating in the Enlisted Master File
(EMF) in order to be considered as a candidate in the new rating.
    b.  17 May 2021.  LTB deadline.
    c.  1 June 2021.  E-8 through E-9 selection board convenes.  All 
eligibility requirements, to include any waivers, must have final approval 
and be posted to the candidates records prior to this date.
    d. 2 July 2021.  Selection board scheduled to adjourn.

5.  Eligibility Criteria.  Candidates must meet the eligibility requirements 
outlined in chapters 2 and 11 of reference (a) and this NAVADMIN prior to the 
scheduled board convening date.  All requirements must reflect in the 
respective IMAPMIS or EMF prior to the board convening.  Requirements 
achieved or posted to the record of the candidate after the scheduled board 
convening date are considered late and will not make a candidate eligible for 
the regularly scheduled board or entitle a candidate to an enlisted special 
selection board.  Refer to paragraph 616 of reference (a) for E-8 through E-9 
candidate validation procedures.  Eligibility requirements include:
    a.  The name of the candidate appears on the selection board eligibility 
list in the correct competitive group on their profile sheet.  Candidates 
should register for e-mail notification for profile sheet updates via MNP at
https://www.mnp.navy.mil/group/navy-advancement-center/my-
advancement.  Candidates and commands share equal responsibility to ensure 
the eligibility list is accurate.  Because eligibility status can change 
without direct notification, candidates should verify their profile sheet on 
a continuous basis and commands must verify their ESVR weekly through the 
projected board adjourn date.
    b.  In line with reference (a), the terminal eligibility date used to 
compute the TIR is 1 October 2021.  The TIR date for E-8 candidates must be 
on or before 1 September 2018.  The TIR date for
E-9 candidates must be on or before 1 July 2018.
    c.  High year tenure (HYT) waivers must be approved prior to the board 
convening.  HYT date or approved HYT waivers for the current paygrade must be 
1 July 2021 or later.  E-7 personnel who are at HYT for E-8 and E-8 personnel 
who are at HYT for E-9 on 1 July 2021 are ineligible for advancement, 
regardless of any approved HYT waiver.
    d.  Commands must revalidate members whose disapproved or cancelled 
retirement authorization is adjudicated prior to the selection board 
convening date by sending an e-mail with the reason for revalidation to the 
Selection Board Eligibility Branch (PERS 802).  See paragraph 208 of 
reference (a) for Fleet Reserve request impacts to eligibility.
    e.  Security clearance requirements.  See paragraph 203 of reference (a).  
Ratings requiring a security clearance are AC, AE, AG, AO, AT, AWF, AWO, AWR, 
AWS, AWV, AZ, CTI, CTM, CTN, CTR, CTT, EOD, ET, FC, FCA, GM, HT, IC, IS, IT, 
LN, MA, MC, MN, ND, OS, QM, SB, SO, STG, and YN, as well as all nuclear and 
submarine ratings.
    f.  Rate specific and competitive group eligibility requirements.  
Candidates must meet special requirements for certain ratings, as outlined in 
paragraph 203 of reference (a).  Commands must verify and submit a message 
formatted e-mail to NETPDC (N321) and PERS-802 requesting invalidation of 
those selection board eligible candidates who no longer meet the rate 
specific and competitive group qualifications by the scheduled board 
convening date.
    g.  Non-nuclear submarine Sailors must be designated as either SS, SU, or 
SQ in line with reference (b) as of the board convening date to be eligible.  
Candidates designated as SG or SP are not eligible for advancement.

6.  Competitive Groups.  The below listed ratings are separated into 
competitive groups as applicable to the component of the candidate:
    a.  CTI (Active-Duty E-8)
        Group 1 - Middle East and North Africa
        Group 2 - East and Far East Asia
        Group 3 - Latin and South America
        Group 4 - Eastern Europe
    b.  EMN, ETN and MMN (Active-Duty E-8 though E-9)
        Group 1 - Submarine
        Group 2  Surface
    c.  MU (Active-Duty E-8 through E-9)
        Group 1 - Premier Band
        Group 2 - Fleet Band
    d.  NC (Active-Duty and FTS E-8 through E-9)
        Group 1 - Career Recruiter Force
        Group 2 - Fleet
    e.  ND (Active-Duty E-8)
        Group 1 - Master Diver
        Group 2 - First Class Diver

7.  For record review and communication with the E-8 through E-9 selection 
board refer to reference (c).
    a.  Communication to the board must originate from the individual 
candidate and must be accompanied under the signed LTB of the candidate.
    b.  All LTBs and each enclosure must contain the candidates full name and 
10-digit DOD identification number.  Candidates must verify that the correct 
board number is on their signed cover letter.
Board numbers are:
        (1) #205 for SELRES E-8 through E-9
        (2) #206 for FTS E-8 through E-9
        (3) #210 for AC E-9
        (4) #235 for AC E-8
    c.  The preferred method to submit a LTB is via the electronic submission 
of selection board documents (ESSBD) application as directed by reference 
(c).  This can be done via MNP at https://www.mnp.navy.mil/group/advancement-
and-promotion.  After navigating to this website, scroll down to and click on 
ESSBD.
    d.  If unable to submit a LTB using ESSBD (i.e., low bandwidth, system 
outage, etc.), candidates should review procedures in reference (c) to submit 
via alternative methods or candidates may mail a LTB to the addresses below.  
Mailed LTBs should be on plain white paper and paper clipped (no staples, 
binders, folders, or tabs).
        (1) SELRES/Mobilized IRR E-8 through E-9 Board:
            MyNavy Career Center (BUPERS-074)
            President
            FY-22 Reserve E-8 through E-9 Selection Board #205
            5720 Integrity Drive
            Millington, TN 38055-6300
        (2) FTS E-8 through E-9 Board:
            MyNavy Career Center (BUPERS-074)
            President
            FY-22 Reserve E-8 through E-9 Selection Board #206
            5720 Integrity Drive
            Millington, TN 38055-6300
        (3) Active E-9 Board:
            MyNavy Career Center (BUPERS-074)
            President
            FY-22 Active E-9 Selection Board #210
            5720 Integrity Drive
            Millington, TN 38055-6300
        (4) Active E-8 Board:
            MyNavy Career Center (BUPERS-074)
            President
            FY-22 Active E-8 Selection Board #235
            5720 Integrity Drive
            Millington, TN 38055-6300
    e.  Certified or registered mail is not advised due to delays in 
handling.
    f.  Candidates may submit more than one LTB vice waiting until the 
deadline to submit one all-inclusive LTB.  Although multiple LTBs are 
authorized, candidates should not duplicate previously sent information.
    g.  The same LTB deadline applies to candidates who gain eligibility 
after the LTB deadline and before the convening date.  A candidate who is 
working to fix an eligibility issue and expects to be selection board 
eligible prior to the board convening date may submit a LTB, which must still 
be received prior to the deadline.

8.  Selection Board Results.  Official results will be provided online via 
BUPERS Online to authorized command representatives prior to the release of 
the official results.  Selectee profile sheets will be published by NETPDC 
within 30 days of both RC and AC selection board results being released.  
Educational services officers who are registered users may access results 
through the NEAS website via MNP at https://www.mnp.navy.mil/group/navy-
advancement-center/my-eso.  Individual candidates may view profile sheets on 
a .mil domain computer via MNP at
https://www.mnp.navy.mil/group/navy-advancement-center/my-
advancement.

9.  Additional information will be posted
    a.  AC boards:  https://www.mnp.navy.mil/group/advancement-and-
promotion/active-duty-enlisted.
    b.  RC boards:  https://www.mnp.navy.mil/group/advancement-and-
promotion/reserve-enlisted.

10.  Points of contact
    a.  MyNavy Career Center, (833) 330-6622 or via e-mail at:
askmncc(at)navy.mil.  Do not submit LTBs to this email.
    b.  Selection board eligibility PERS-802, (901) 874-4537/DSN 882 or via 
e-mail at NPC_Enlisted_Selbd_Elig(at)navy.mil.
    c.  NETPDC (N321), (850) 473-6148/DSN 753 or via e-mail at 
sfly_N321_discrepanc(at)navy.mil.

11.  This message will remain in effect until superseded or cancelled.

12.  Released by Vice Admiral John B. Nowell, Jr, N1.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//


