UNCLASSIFIED//
ROUTINE
R 101751Z DEC 20 MID600050070503U
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
CMC WASHINGTON DC
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC
BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 317/20

PASS TO OFFICE CODES:
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N2N6//
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N2N6//
MSGID/NAVADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N2N6/DEC//

SUBJ/2021 NAVAL INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY AWARDS SOLICITATION//

REF/A/INST/OPNAV/06DEC17//

REF/B/INST/COMNAVIFORES/21DEC18//

AMPN/REF A IS OPNAVINST 1650.26E - NAVAL INTELLIGENCE AWARDS PROGRAM.  REF B 
IS COMNAVIFORESINST 1650.4P - POLICY AND PROCEDURES GOVERNING MILITARY AWARDS 
AND RECOGNITION PROGRAM.// POC 1/WATSON/CIV/NIA-HC/EMAIL:  
YOLANDA.Y.WATSON(AT)NAVY.MIL// POC 2/SAUNDERS/CIV/OPNAV N2N6IM2/EMAIL:  
MICHAEL.SAUNDERS(AT)NAVY.MIL//

RMKS/1.  Reference (a) is the Naval Intelligence Awards Program that 
recognizes excellence and outstanding achievement in Naval Intelligence, and 
covers recognition details for each award.  This NAVADMIN builds on guidance 
provided in references (a) and (b) and solicits nominations.
    a.  Rear Admiral Thomas A. Brooks Intelligence Junior Officer of the Year 
Award recognizes junior officers for their leadership, performance, special 
accomplishments, and overall contribution to command efficiency, morale, and 
welfare while serving on both sea and  shore duty.  Active and Reserve 
Component Naval Intelligence Officers (183X/683X) O-1 through O-3 are 
eligible.  Two Active or Reserve Component junior officers will be selected 
one each for the sea duty and shore duty categories.
    b.  Commander Dan F. Shanower Intelligence Specialist of the Year Award 
recognizes Intelligence Specialists for their performance, leadership, 
special accomplishments, and overall contribution to command efficiency, 
morale, and welfare. Active and Reserve Component Intelligence Specialists in 
pay grades E-1 through E-5 are eligible to compete for the Junior 
Intelligence Specialist of the Year award.  Active and Reserve Component 
Intelligence Specialists in pay grade E-6, including those frocked to E-6 
during the eligibility period, are eligible to compete for the Senior 
Intelligence Specialist of the Year award.  A total of four Active or Reserve 
Component Intelligence Specialists will be selected  one Junior and one 
Senior Intelligence Specialists of the Year for each of the sea duty and 
shore duty categories.
    c.  Vice Admiral Rufus L. Taylor Award for Leadership recognizes  
leadership from deserving Active or Reserve Component officer, enlisted, or 
civilian personnel who exemplify excellence and exceptional dedication to 
duty within the Naval Intelligence Community.  Active and Reserve Component 
Naval Intelligence officers (183X/683X) in grades O-4 through O-6, 
Intelligence CWOs (783X) CWO-3 through CWO-5, Intelligence Specialists E-7 
through E-9, and civilians GS-13 through GS-15 (or equivalent) are eligible.  
Two candidates will be selected for this award  one Active or civilian 
candidate, and one Reserve Component candidate.
    d.  Vice Admiral Rufus L. Taylor Award for Excellence in Intelligence 
Instruction recognizes Intelligence instructors who embody the time-honored 
principles which Vice Admiral Taylor exemplified throughout his career:  
desire for professional knowledge, intellectual curiosity, initiative, 
enthusiasm, ability to command respect and motivate others, devotion to duty, 
effective communication skills, and personal and intellectual integrity.  
Active and Reserve Component U.S. Navy and U.S. Marine Corps service members 
serving as instructors, faculty, or staff at IWTC Virginia Beach and IWTC San 
Diego are eligible.  Two candidates will be selected  one each from 
Information Warfare Training Command (IWTC) Virginia Beach and IWTC San 
Diego.
    e.  Rear Admiral Edwin T. Layton Award for Leadership and  Mentorship 
recognizes outstanding leadership and mentorship in the furtherance of Naval 
Intelligence performance.  Active and Reserve Component Naval Intelligence 
officers (183X/683X) in grades O-4 through O-6, Intelligence CWOs (783X) CWO-
3 through CWO-5, and Intelligence Specialists E-6 through E-9 are eligible.  
There is no set number of awards to be given each year.
    f.  Herman Dworkin Award for Maritime Analytic Excellence recognizes a 
civilian or military analyst working maritime issues who displays an 
exceptional work ethic and analytical expertise.  Active and Reserve 
Component Naval Intelligence Officers (183X/683X) in grades O-3 through O-5, 
Intelligence CWOs (783X) CWO-2 through CWO-5, and civilians GS-12 through GS-
14 (or
equivalent) are eligible.  Nominees must have at least ten years of 
experience in the field of maritime intelligence analysis and be currently 
analytically active.  One candidate will be selected for this award.

2.  The eligibility period for all Intelligence awards is 1 January 2020 to
31 December 2020.

3.  Submission requirements are outlined in references (a) and (b).  
Nomination packages must be unclassified, and should strictly follow the 
nomination template that is posted to the Navy Information Warfare Outreach 
page on MilSuite at https://www.milsuite.mil/book/docs/DOC-244835 (Common 
Access Card email certificate login required).  This template accounts for 
all information and enclosures required per reference (a).  The template does 
not require the use of social security numbers or other sensitive Personally-
Identifiable Information (PII).  Commands should avoid including unnecessary 
PII in nomination packages.  Recent fitness reports, evaluations, or awards 
are not required in nomination packages and should not be included in 
submissions.

4.  Submission instructions.  All nomination packages must be submitted as a 
single .pdf file.  With two exceptions (listed below), the nominees current 
commands must forward all award nomination packages to Ms. Yolanda Watson at 
yolanda.y.watson(at)navy.mil via encrypted email.  All emails must have the 
award name and last name of the nominee in the subject line.  If unable to 
send encrypted emails, utilize DoD Secure Access File Exchange (SAFE) website 
at https://safe.apps.mil.
    a.  Vice Admiral Rufus L. Taylor Award for Leadership, Reserve Component 
nominations must be received by Commander, Naval Information Force Reserve
(COMNAVIFORES) no later than 15 February 2021.  Nomination packages must be 
endorsed by units supported Naval Information Force Reserve (NIFR) Region (if
applicable) prior to submission.  NIFR Regions will forward all packages for 
boarding to COMNAVIFORES HQ via encrypted email to YNCS Shergala Brockett at 
NIFR_ALL_AWARDS(at)navy.mil to meet the 15 February 2021 deadline.
    b.  Vice Admiral Rufus L. Taylor Award for Excellence in Intelligence 
Instruction nominations.  Forward all packages to appropriate IWTC POCs via 
encrypted email.  POC for IWTC Virginia Beach is Mr. Larry Banks,
email:  larry.banks(at)navy.mil.  POC for IWTC San Diego is Mr. Adam 
Thompson, email:  adam.d.thompson(at)navy.mil.

5.  All packages must be submitted no later than 12 March 2021, with the 
exception of the Vice Admiral Rufus L. Taylor Award for Leadership (Reserve 
Component), which must be submitted no later than 15 February 2021 per 
reference (b).

6.  Incomplete packages or packages failing to meet all guidance as outlined 
in this message and reference (a) will not be considered.  Late submissions 
will not be accepted.  Classified nomination packages will not be accepted.

7.  Released by VADM Jeffrey E. Trussler, Deputy Chief of Naval Operations 
for Information Warfare, OPNAV N2N6.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//

