UNCLASSIFIED//

ROUTINE

R 031714Z FEB 20 MID110000378915U

FM CNO WASHINGTON DC

TO NAVADMIN

BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 029/20

PASS TO OFFICE CODES:
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//DNS//

MSGID/NAVADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC//DNS/JAN//

SUBJ/2019 USS BAINBRIDGE (CGN 25) AWARD FOR OVERALL EXCELLENCE IN COMMUNITY 
SERVICE//

REF/A/DOC/OPNAV/17SEP2018//

AMPN/REF A IS OPNAVINST 5350.6D, NAVY COMMUNITY SERVICE PROGRAM.// POC/SAN 
NICOLAS-PEREZ, COLEEN/CIV/CNIC WASHINGTON DC/N00P//TEL:  (202) 433-4358
/EMAIL:  COLEEN.PEREZ(AT)NAVY.MIL//

RMKS/1.  Each year, the Navy recognizes a command that engaged in exemplary 
voluntary community service activities with local communities through 
presentation of the USS BAINBRIDGE (CGN 25) Award for Overall Excellence in 
Community Service.  It is with great pleasure that I announce the selection 
of Afloat Training Group Middle Pacific (AFLOATRAGRU MIDPAC) as the Fiscal 
Year
2019 winner of the BAINBRIDGE Award.  Sailors at AFLOATRAGRU MIDPAC 
volunteered more than 2,245 hours to greatly improve the lives of more than 
63,000 citizens in their local community.  AFLOATRAGRU MIDPAC reached out to 
the community through youth and special needs activities, schools, sports 
events, quality of life enhancement programs, health and fitness events, and 
environmental stewardship programs.

2.  Center for Naval Aviation Technical Training Unit Lemoore 
(CENNAVAVNTECHTRAU LEMOORE CA) was selected as Honorable Mention for the 
BAINBRIDGE (CGN 25) Award.  Sailors at CENNAVAVNTECHTRAU LEMOORE CA fostered 
positive working relationships with and significantly impacted the 
surrounding communities of Kings and Fresno counties.

3.  Congratulations to both commands and thank you for your participation in 
and continued support of the Navy Community Service Program.  Your proactive 
engagement has made a great difference in the lives of those around you.  
Well done!

4.  Released by Mr. Andrew S. Haeuptle, Director, Navy Staff on behalf of 
Vice Admiral M. M. Jackson, Commander, Navy Installations Command.//

BT
#0001
NNNN 
UNCLASSIFIED//


