UNCLASSIFIED//

ROUTINE

R 152025Z MAR 21 MID600050377833U

FM CNO WASHINGTON DC

TO NAVADMIN

INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC

BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 062/21

PASS TO OFFICE CODES:
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N2N6//

MSGID/NAVADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N2N6/MAR//

SUBJ/RISK MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK STANDARD OPERATING PROCEDURES (SOP)//

REF/A/DOC/DDCIO(N)/2SEP20//

AMPN/REF A IS DEPARTMENT OF NAVY DEPUTY COMMAND INFORMATION OFFICER (NAVY)
(DDCIO(N)) UNITED STATES NAVY RISK MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK PROCESS GUIDE V3.2.
POC:  MEGAN CANE/GS14/N2N6D6/MEGAN.CANE(AT)NAVY.MIL//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN updates reference (a) and will remain in effect until 
cancelled or superseded.

2.  This NAVADMIN releases the Risk Management Framework (RMF) Standard 
Operating Procedures (SOPs) in alignment with reference (a) for RMF Step 2, 
RMF Step 4, and RMF Step 5 and is applicable to all United States Navy (USN) 
systems under Navy Authorizing Official (NAO) and Functional Authorizing 
Official (FAO) authorities.

3.  To standardize, streamline, automate reviews, and improve quality of 
products used for the RMF review process, Deputy Chief of Naval Operations
(DCNO) N2N6, in coordination with key Navy Subject Matter Experts (SME), 
developed a series of SOPs aligned with reference (a) to be used by the Navy 
RMF community, specifically each Package Submitting Office (PSO) and Security 
Control Assessor (SCA).  These SOPs provide a centralized and consolidated 
source of requirements that RMF practitioners and their respective RMF 
projects and packages must meet to achieve an AO authorization.

4.  The SOPs are comprised of a list of requirements, recommended standard 
language for feedback to the practitioner, and references for each item.  
Completed SOPs must be fed through the comment generator within the 
automation tool eMASSter.  This will create a standardized report that 
captures any findings and provides comments to the program.  If the report 
shows no findings, it must still be provided as part of the package as it 
moves to the next step in the review process.  Packages submitted without 
this SOP report will not be processed in the next step of review.

5.  A two-hour training session on how to utilize the SOPs will be offered to 
the Echelon II PSOs weekly for four weeks after the release of this message.  
Initial training sessions will be organized and hosted by the Office of the 
Chief of Naval Operations (OPNAV) N2N6D6 after the release of this message.  
Training will continue to be offered quarterly to train new
personnel.    Training resources will also be available on the RMF portal at
the link shown in paragraph 9 of this NAVADMIN.

6.  SOP change requests shall be submitted to the SOP inbox:  don_rmf 
_sops.fct(at)navy.mil.  These requests will follow an approved Configuration 
Control Board (CCB) process with FAO, NAO, and SCA representation under the 
cognizance of OPNAV N2N6D6.  This board will meet approximately every six 
weeks to review requested changes or on an as needed basis for urgent 
requests.  Changes and/or additions to the SOPs outside of this process are 
not authorized.  RMF package reviewers shall allow a 45-day grace period 
after the release of a new SOP for packages already under review.

7.  Effective 45 days after the release of this message, every PSO must 
require use of the Step 2 and Step 5 SOPs prior to submitting an RMF package 
for decision.

8.  Effective 45 days after the release of this message, the SCA and 
Functional Security Control Assessor (FSCA) or their appointed liaisons must 
use the Step
4 SOP prior to approving a Security Assessment Plan (SAP) and/or signing a 
Security Assessment Report (SAR).

9.  The SOPs and eMASSter tool are located at:  
https://portal.secnav.navy.mil 
/orgs/OPNAV/N2N6/DDCION/N2N6BC4/RMF/Shared%20Documents/Forms/AllItems.aspx 
and will be maintained on this site.

10.  Released by VADM Jeffrey E. Trussler, Deputy Chief of Naval Operations 
for Information Warfare, OPNAV N2N6.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//


