UNCLASSIFIED//

ROUTINE

R 171445Z MAY 21 MID200000865600U

FM CNO WASHINGTON DC

TO NAVADMIN

INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC

BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 093/21

PASS TO OFFICE CODES:
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N7//
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N7//

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N71/MAY//

SUBJ/ACADEMIC YEAR 2021-2022 NAVAL WAR COLLEGE FLEET SEMINAR PROGRAM//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN announces the Naval War College (NWC) College of 
Distance Education (CDE) Fleet Seminar Program (FSP) which offers 
intermediate level Joint Professional Military Education (JPME-I) through a 
set of three courses: Strategy and War (S and W), Theater Security Decision 
Making (TSDM) and Joint Maritime Operations (JMO).  Each course requires one 
academic year to complete, running September through the following May.  All 
three courses are not offered simultaneously at all locations.  There is no 
tuition fee and course materials are provided on a loan basis at no cost to 
the students. Applicants must apply by 31 May 2021.

2.  Background:
    a.  The NWC FSP will be offered in 18 regional locations in the United
    States for academic year 2021-2022.  Planned locations and courses are:
        (1) Annapolis, MD (S and W, TSDM and JMO)
        (2) Everett, WA (JMO)
        (3) Fort Worth, TX (JMO)
        (4) Great Lakes, IL (S and W)
        (5) Jacksonville, FL (TSDM and JMO)
        (6) Kitsap, WA (S and W)
        (7) Mayport, FL (S and W)
        (8) Millington, TN (TSDM)
        (9) New Orleans, LA (S and W)
        (10) Newport, RI (S and W, TSDM and JMO)
        (11) Norfolk, VA (S and W, TSDM and JMO)
        (12) Patuxent River, MD (S and W)
        (13) Pearl Harbor, HI (S and W, TSDM and JMO)
        (14) Pensacola, FL (Whiting Field) (S and W and TSDM)
        (15) Port Hueneme, CA (S and W)
        (16) San Diego, CA (S and W, TSDM and JMO)
        (17) Washington, DC (S and W, TSDM and JMO)
        (18) Whidbey Island, WA (TSDM)
    b.  Seminars meet once a week in the evening for approximately 34
    weeks.  Completion of all three courses results in the award of a College 
of Naval Command and Staff diploma, as well as credit for JPME-I.  The FSP 
also provides a path to attain the NWC Masters Degree through the CDE 
Graduate Degree Program (GDP).  FSP students may apply following successful 
completion of their first FSP course.  The FSP seminars at all locations are 
conducted in-step with each other, so students who transfer to or assigned 
temporary additional duty at another location may attend class at the new 
location.

3.  Criteria:
    a.  NWC accepts program applications from commissioned officers (active 
and reserve) and civilian employees of the federal government, subject to the
    following eligibility requirements:
        (1)  Members of the sea services (Navy, Marine Corps and Coast Guard) 
in the paygrade of O-3 or above.  Officers from the other services must be in 
the paygrade of O-4 or above.  Civilian employees of the federal government 
in the grade of GS-11 and above, or equivalent, are also eligible for 
enrollment.
        (2)  All applicants must have previously earned at least a 
baccalaureate degree.
    b.  Qualified individuals currently stationed in areas listed in 
paragraph two, or those who expect transfer to those sites prior to 1 
September 2021 are encouraged to apply.

4.  Application Process:  More information is available and applications must 
be submitted at the NWC College of Distance Education FSP website at https 
://www.mnp.navy.mil/group/training-education-qualifications (NWC Academic 
Programs link).  The application period will remain open until 31 May 2021.

5.  Selection Notifications:  NWC will make enrollment selections and 
accepted applicants will be advised of their enrollment selection status via 
email.

6.  Points of contact are Ms. Stephanie Accaputo who can be reached at (401) 
841 -7677/DSN 841 or via email at fsp(at)usnwc.edu, Ms. Kelly Folger who can 
be reached at (401) 841-6520/DSN 841 or via email at fsp(at)usnwc.edu and 
Professor Ronald Oard who can be reached via email at oardr(at)usnwc.edu.

7.  Request widest dissemination of the above information.  Regional 
coordinators at the sites listed in paragraph two are requested to pass this 
information to all Army, Marine Corps, Air Force and Coast Guard units and 
all reserve units located within safe-driving distance of an FSP site.

8.  This message will remain in effect until superseded or 31 May 2021, 
whichever occurs first.

9. Released by VADM J. W. Hughes, Deputy Chief of Naval Operations for 
Warfighting Development, OPNAV N7.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//

