UNCLASSIFIED

ROUTINE

R 041618Z MAR 22 MID200001546852U

FM CNO WASHINGTON DC

TO NAVADMIN

INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC

BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 052/22

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N4/MAR//

SUBJ/ADMIRAL STAN ARTHUR AWARDS CALL FOR CY 2021 NOMINATIONS//

REF/A/DOC/OPNAV/18SEP2017//

AMPN/OPNAVINST 5305.8D, ADMIRAL STAN ARTHUR AWARDS FOR LOGISTICS EXCELLENCE// 
POC/CDR DANNY EWING/CNO WASHINGTON DC/OPNAV N4L12/TEL:  (703)695-5641
/EMAIL:  DANNY.L.EWING.MIL(AT)US.NAVY.MIL//
POC/CDR JOSH MILLNER/CNO WASHINGTON DC/OPNAV N4L12/TEL:  (703)695-4864
/EMAIL:  JOSHUA.M.MILLNER.MIL(AT)US.NAVY.MIL//

RMKS/1.  Per reference (a), nominations are requested for the annual Admiral 
Stan Arthur Awards.  Submit all nominations, not to exceed two pages, using 
OPNAV 5305/8, Admiral Stan Arthur Awards for Logistics Excellence (Rev. Oct 
2013), which is available at:  
https://portal.secnav.navy.mil/orgs/OPNAV/N4/Documents/Forms/AllItems.aspx?Ro
otFolder=%2Forgs%2FOPNAV%2FN4%2FDocuments%2FAdmiral%20Stan%20Arthur%20Awards%
20for%20Logistics%20Excellence%20Nomination&FolderCTID=0x012000D460D5104847AB
48871BEE6CF92C85BE&View=%7BF9E3AEFD%2DF164%2D4974%2D8A37%2D30E788C3E32E%7D.  
Categories are:
    a.  Military Logistician of the Year
    b.  Civilian Logistician of the Year
    c.  Logistics Team(s) of the Year

2.  In line with the Chief of Naval Operations' Navigation Plan 2021, the 
Admiral Stan Arthur Award criteria reflects an emphasis on delivering a more 
ready, lethal, and better-connected Fleet.  The Admiral Stan Arthur Award 
will recognize Navy military and civilian individuals and team(s) whose 
contributions and suggestions during calendar year 2021 have:
    a.  Enhanced the operating force combat capability;
    b.  Improved technology, products, services and/or processes;
    c.  Resolved major logistics issues;
    d.  Produced logistics innovations that merit adoption for standard use;
    e.  Delivered positive outcomes for Joint operations; and
    f.  Advanced logistics capabilities that ensure warfighter dominance in a 
contested logistics environment.

3.  Nominees may be involved in any and all phases of Navy acquisition, 
operational logistics, and Joint Services logistics, from early life-cycle 
planning to in-service logistics support.  Nominees may come from a variety 
of communities, to include, but not limited to:  civil engineering, supply, 
medical, fuel, ordnance and maintenance.  Contractors may be included on team 
award submissions, but will not receive monetary awards.  When completing 
OPNAV 5305/8, commands will separately address each criteria category listed 
above and specifically address achievements within those categories.  For any 
additional types of logistics achievements, command shall identify additional 
categories of achievements and corresponding benefits.

4.  Individuals and team(s) selected to receive the Admiral Stan Arthur Award 
for calendar year 2021 will be announced via naval message.

5.  Award selectees receive the following:
    a.  Plaque and certificate for individual category and team(s).
    b.  $5,000 for Military Logistician of the Year.
    c.  $5,000 for Civilian Logistician of the Year.
    d.  $10,000 for the winning team to share among its military and civilian 
members.

6.  Submit nominations in response to Department of the Navy Tasking, Records 
and Consolidated Knowledge Enterprise Repository tasker, or via email if DON 
TRACKER is unavailable, through echelon 2 command or joint command 
headquarters to Director, Logistics Division (OPNAV N4L) no later than close 
of business Friday, 31 May 2022.  Echelon 2 commands may submit a total of 
three nominations, no more than one per award category.  Joint Command 
Headquarters may submit one naval nominee in each award category and one team 
nomination.  The joint team nomination may be comprised of non-naval military 
personnel if the Navy has administrative and support responsibility for the 
joint activity.  To receive confirmation of package arrival, nomination 
package must include e-mail address and phone number of echelon 2 Command or 
Joint Command Headquarters' point of contact.  Commands shall not submit 
nominee biographies or photos.  Any biographies and photos will not be 
included in the package reviewed by the awards panel.  Commands shall refrain 
from using gender based pronouns (he/she, his/her) and titles (Mr./Ms.) to 
ensure objectivity during award package review.  For individual awards, 
Nominee may be utilized to refer to the nominee, as necessary.

7.  Released by VADM R. L. Williamson, N4.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//

