ROUTINE 
R 021900Z JUN 22 MID200001775784U 
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1// 
TO NAVADMIN 
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1// 
BT 
UNCLAS 
 
NAVADMIN 129/22 
 
PASS TO OFFICE CODES: 
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1// 
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1// 
MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/JUN// 
 
SUBJ/MANDATORY USE OF THE NAVY PERSONNEL AND PAY (NP2) MYPCS TRAVEL VOUCHER 
SUBMISSION TOOL AND GOVERNMENT TRAVEL CHARGE CARD (GTCC) DURING PERMANENT 
CHANGE OF STATION (PCS) TRAVEL// 
 
REF/A/GENADMIN/CNO WASH DC/061749ZAUG19// 
REF/B/GENADMIN/CNO WASH DC/241737ZJUN20// 
REF/C/GENADMIN/CNO WASH DC/151917ZDEC21// 
REF/D/GENADMIN/CNO WASH DC/151823ZDEC21// 
REF/E/DOC/DOD/JUN2021// 
REF/F/DOC/DTMO/MAR2022// 
REF/G/DOC/DOD/1MAY2022// 
 
NARR/REF A IS NAVADMIN 184/19 GOVERNMENT TRAVEL CHARGE CARD USE DURING 
PERMANENT CHANGE OF STATION TRAVEL. 
REF B IS NAVADMIN 176/20 GOVERNMENT TRAVEL CHARGE CARD USE DURING PERMANENT 
CHANGE OF STATION FULL ROLLOUT. 
REF C IS NAVADMIN 286/21 MANDATORY USE OF GOVERNMENT TRAVEL CHARGE CARD AND 
MYPCS TRAVEL VOUCHER. 
REF D IS NAVADMIN 285/21 GOVERNMENT TRAVEL CHARGE CARD USE DURING PERMANENT 
CHANGE OF STATION LESSONS LEARNED. 
REF E IS THE DEFENSE TRAVEL MANAGEMENT OFFICE (DTMO) GTCC 
REGULATIONS. 
REF F IS THE JOINT TRAVEL REGULATIONS. 
REF G IS THE DOD FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT REGULATION (FMR) VOLUME 7A.// 
 
RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN cancels references (a) through (c) and 
mandates the use of the MyPCS Travel Voucher and the Government 
Travel Charge Card (GTCC) for Permanent Change of Station (PCS) 
travel in accordance with the timelines listed in paragraph 2.  The 
MyPCS Travel Voucher is a fully automated, electronic travel claim 
voucher capability introduced to the Fleet in 2019.  Its use has 
streamlined the travel claim process, increasing accuracy and 
reducing processing timelines.  The GTCC has also been authorized 
for PCS travel since 2019.  These efforts are a proven capability 
providing Sailors and their families a reliable mean of financial 
support during and after a PCS move.  These represent another MyNavy 
HR milestone toward delivering better quality of service to Sailors 
and their families through a modernized pay and personnel process. 
Reference (d) provides information and guidance to reinforce 
procedures for using the GTCC during a PCS travel. 
 
2.  Timeline.  On 01 Jan 2022, Phase I of the mandatory use of the 
MyPCS Travel Voucher and GTCC for PCS travel was implemented for all 
Active Duty (AD) and Training and Administration of the Reserve 
(TAR) in paygrades E-9 and O-6 and above.  Mandatory use of the 
MyPCS Travel Voucher and GTCC for PCS will expand to other paygrades 
as reflected below. 
   a.  MyPCS Travel Voucher: 01 Jul 2022, all AD and TAR Service 
Members in all paygrades are required to use the MyPCS Travel 
Voucher for submission of PCS travel claims, except for members 
reporting to commands listed in paragraph 10c.  Mandated use of the 
MyPCS Travel Voucher was previously expanded to include Selected 
Reservists executing Active Duty for Operational Support and Officer 
Recall PCS orders. 
   b.  GTCC Phase II: 01 Jul 2022, all Service Members in paygrades 
E-7 and above and O-4 and above will be required to use the GTCC for 
PCS travel expenses. 
   c.  GTCC Phase III: 01 Jan 2023, all Service Members in all 
paygrades will be required to use the GTCC for PCS travel expenses. 
 
3.  Policy 
   a.  Use of the GTCC for PCS travel applies to personnel traveling 
on both Continental United States (CONUS) and outside CONUS (OCONUS) 
PCS orders who are: 
      (1) Active Duty 
      (2) Training and Administration of the Reserve (TAR) 
      (3) Selected Reservists (SELRES) executing Active Duty for 
Operational Support (ADOS) and Officer Recall PCS orders 
   b.  Use of the GTCC for PCS travel does not apply to: 
      (1) Personnel on accession, separation, or retirement orders 
      (2) DoD Civilian personnel and contractors 
      (3) Individual mobilization augmentees 
      (4) Individual Ready Reserve Navy personnel 
      (5) Individuals not eligible to obtain a GTCC or are otherwise 
explicitly exempted by reference (e) 
   c.  New accessions eligible to receive a GTCC will apply for and 
receive their GTCC upon check-in at their first Permanent Duty 
Station (PDS). 
 
4.  Actions and Responsibilities. 
   a.  Commanders and supervisors.  Ensure Agency Program 
Coordinators (APC), Command Pay and Personnel Administrators 
(CPPA), and GTCC cardholders adhere to all applicable instructions. 
Commanders and supervisors at all levels are responsible for 
ensuring compliance with Section 040103 of reference (e). 
   b.  APCs.  APCs shall be reflected on command check-in and check- 
out sheets. 
      (1) Losing command.  APCs will consult with all Service 
Members during the check-out process and advise them of the rules, 
regulations, and requirement to use the GTCC for PCS travel for all 
authorized expenses (paragraph 5).  In accordance with reference 
(e), APCs shall verify the cardholders GTCC is active, in a Mission 
Critical (MC)/PCS status, and has a zero balance prior to the 
Service Member detaching from the command.  Credit, retail, and cash 
withdrawal limits above the default limits in reference (e) must be 
adjusted to accommodate requirements for the duration of PCS travel. 
If the APCs approval maximum is insufficient for the duration and 
requirements of PCS travel, the affected APC shall consult the next 
higher APC hierarchy level for further consideration.  APCs shall 
provide MC/PCS status expiration date and advise the Service Member 
to call MyNavy Career Center (MNCC) to renew MC/PCS status every 90 
days as necessary. 
      (2)  Gaining command.  Upon arrival at the gaining command, 
APCs will ensure the cardholders account is transferred into the 
gaining command hierarchy and account status adjustments are made to 
update the members phone number, email address, physical mailing 
address or other pertinent information which changed due to the 
move.  Under no circumstances should an APC either close a 
cardholders GTCC account or remove the cardholder from MC/PCS 
status, as it will have negative effects on the timeline towards 
delinquency. 
   c.  CPPAs.  The CPPA shall be reflected on command check-in and 
check-out sheets.  Gaining command CPPAs shall ensure members submit 
their MyPCS Travel Vouchers within five working days of arrival. 
   d.  Cardholders.  Service Members using the GTCC for official 
government travel are encouraged to register on Citimanager 
(https://home.cards.citidirect.com/CommercialCard/login).  Failure to use the 
GTCC for authorized PCS expenses may subject the cardholder to appropriate 
administrative or disciplinary action. 
     (1) Before travel: During check out with the APC/CPPA, the 
Service Member shall provide a copy of their PCS orders, estimated 
PCS expenses and a contact number where the Service Member can be 
reached during travel. 
     (2) During travel: Service Members shall keep receipts for all 
reimbursable expenses.  Cardholders who have reached their credit 
limit or experience a declined GTCC when attempting to make an 
authorized purchase should call MNCC for assistance to raise their 
credit limit or to determine if a Merchant Category Code (MCC) block 
may restrict that vendor.  Service Members will be reimbursed for 
PCS expenses up to their maximum entitlement per reference (f). 
Overspending of entitlements may result in personal indebtedness and 
the cardholder will be subject to repaying the remaining balance on 
the GTCC. 
      (3) Extended PCS travel (>120 days): Cardholder accounts are 
placed in a MC/PCS status while a Service Member is traveling to 
their new PDS.  MC/PCS status protects the Service Member from any 
payments being due on the GTCC until 60 days after coming out of 
MC/PCS status.  Citibank program limitations only allow accounts to 
be in a MC/PCS status for 120 days at a time.  To prevent the 
Citibank bill from coming due prior to the Service Member reporting 
to their PDS, Service Members must contact their detaching command 
APC or MNCC Pro Cell at (833-330-MNCC) Option 2 to have their MC/PCS 
status extended.  Failure to extend the account in MC/PCS status may 
result in the Service Member being placed in a past due or 
delinquent status and ultimately lead to loss of GTCC privileges and 
potential damage to personal credit rating. 
     (4) Upon check-in to PDS: Cardholders shall review their GTCC 
account for accuracy and ensure all supporting receipts are 
submitted using the MyPCS Travel Voucher to ensure sufficient funds 
are allocated to pay the full balance on the card when the travel 
claim is liquidated.  Service Members shall check-in with the APC 
and CPPA to submit their travel voucher using MyPCS Travel Voucher 
within five working days and before executing any permissive TDY. 
Split disbursement is mandatory when using GTCC for PCS. 
      (5) To verify full payment has been completed upon MyPCS 
Travel Voucher liquidation, Service Members shall review their 
Advice of Payment in MyPay. 
      (6) MNCC will verify GTCC balance when liquidating travel 
claims to result in a zero balance on the GTCC.  This may result in 
per diem funds being applied to produce a zero balance. 
      (7) Service Members should verify their GTCC balance on Citi 
Manager has been paid in full after their travel has been 
liquidated. 
      (8) Individual cardholders are responsible for timely payment 
of their GTCC balance.  Any outstanding balance on the GTCC must be 
paid within 60 days of coming out of MC/PCS status.  Account 
delinquency may adversely impact the Service Members assignability, 
financial health, security clearance, or credit history.  Accounts 
become past due 31 days after checking in to the command.  On Day 
61, the GTCC is suspended.  On Day 75, the cardholder is charged a 
 
29.00 per month late fee.  On Day 126, the member is submitted for 
enrollment in Salary Offset and on Day 211, Citibank may charge off 
the debt which could affect the cardholders credit. 
 
5.  Authorized and unauthorized uses of the GTCC for PCS travel. 
   a.  Service Members should note PCS travel expenses are not 
necessarily directly reimbursed.  Reimbursement is based on PCS 
allowance rules in accordance with Chapter 5 of reference (f). 
   b.  The GTCC is authorized for the following travel expenses: 
      (1) Temporary Lodging Expense (TLE) at the old or new CONUS 
PDS.  See Chapter 5 of reference (f) for information on TLE. 
      (2) Fuel and electric vehicle charging for a Privately Owned 
Vehicle (POV) when POV is the authorized mode of transportation. 
      (3) Rental car and fuel, when a rental car is the authorized 
mode of transportation. 
      (4) Lodging.  Service Members will be reimbursed per reference 
(f) Chapter 2. 
      (5) Meals.  Service Members will be reimbursed per reference 
(f) Chapter 2. 
      (6) Dislocation Allowance (DLA) Expenses.  These are expenses 
related to DLA normally used to establish a household (e.g., carpet 
cleaning, utility deposits).  If the Service Member uses the GTCC 
for DLA expenses and does not exceed their authorized entitlement, 
the member will receive the full amount of the difference when their 
travel claim is liquidated.  If the Service Member was issued 
advanced DLA, the member shall not use the GTCC for DLA expenses. 
      (7) Automated Teller Machine (ATM) or bank teller withdrawals 
up to the monthly cash withdrawal limit in reference (e).  A 2.4 
percent non-reimbursable fee applies to any amount withdrawn.  ATM 
charges are not reimbursable expenses. 
   c.  The GTCC is not authorized for the following travel expenses: 
      (1) DLA expenses when issued advanced DLA. 
      (2) Dependent use without the Service Member. 
      (3) Commercial airfare for PCS travel.  Commercial airfare 
will continue to be booked by the Navy Passenger Transportation 
Office (NAVPTO).  No commercial airfare charges will be made to a 
Service Members GTCC account including when the Service Members 
orders contain intermediate stops to PDS. 
      (4) Personal travel arrangements incurred during leave in 
conjunction with orders.  See reference (e) for further details. 
      (5) Personally Procured Moves (PPM) operating expenses (e.g., 
rental truck/trailers, moving supplies, furniture pads, rope, oil, 
weight ticket fees). 
      (6) Accession, separation, or retirement travel. 
      (7) Payment of debt owed to creditors. 
      (8) Personal expenses unrelated to travel expenses (e.g., 
automobile repairs, medical expenses, childcare, entertainment, or 
uniform items). 
      (9) Short-term storage-in-transit (SIT) or long-term non- 
temporary storage (NTS) of PPMs or other household goods. 
      (10) Temporary Lodging Allowance (TLA).  In accordance with 
reference (g), TLA may be authorized by the TLA Authority when a 
Service Member or dependent is reporting to an OCONUS location and 
needs to occupy temporary lodging at personal expense.  TLA cannot 
be paid for with the GTCC since it is a pay entitlement, not a 
travel entitlement.  Additionally, TLA expenses cannot be split 
disbursed to Citibank. 
 
6.  GTCC Misuse.  Commanders, supervisors, CPPAs, and APCs will 
ensure Service Members using their GTCC are advised of authorized 
and prohibited uses of the GTCC for PCS travel.  Examples of misuse 
include but are not limited to: 
   a.  Expenses unrelated to PCS travel. 
   b.  ATM cash withdrawals made more than three working days prior 
to official government travel or excessive ATM cash withdrawals for 
amounts exceeding authorized meals and incidental expense amounts. 
   c.  Intentional failure to pay undisputed charges in a timely 
manner. 
   d.  Personal use for entertainment or gambling.  Military 
personnel who violate the specific prohibitions contained in 
reference (e) can be subject to administrative or disciplinary 
action under the Uniform Code of Military Justice (UCMJ) based on 
the nature of the misconduct involved. 
 
7.  Travel Advance Guidance. 
   a.  If desired and qualified per reference (f), a Service Member 
under PCS orders may request advanced DLA.  If issued, the GTCC 
shall not be used for DLA expenses. 
   b.  Service Members may request an Advance Operating Allowance 
for Household Goods (HHG) PPMs and Advance Basic Pay and still use 
their GTCC for all authorized travel expenses. 
   c.  All other travel advances (per diem, mileage, Temporary 
Additional Duty (TAD) travel) are not authorized with concurrent use 
of the GTCC.  Qualified exceptions will be restricted to non- 
concurrent travel of dependents and Service Members not eligible to 
receive a GTCC per reference (e). 
   d.  Use of the GTCC and receipt of travel advances for the same 
entitlement could result in indebtedness to the Government through 
over expenditure of entitlements, and Service Members may be subject 
to administrative and disciplinary action. 
 
8.  TLE guidance.  APCs shall ensure Service Members planning on 
using TLE at their PDS remain in a MC/PCS status while using the 
GTCC for TLE expenses.  The Service Member shall check-in with their 
CPPA immediately upon arrival and submit their MyPCS Travel Voucher 
within five working days regardless of whether TLE has been used. 
Service Members who use their GTCC for TLE expenses to their PDS 
should file a supplemental Travel Voucher upon completion of their 
temporary lodging stay via MyPCS Travel Voucher and ensure split 
disbursement is annotated.  Reference (f) Section 0506 details TLE 
eligibility, reimbursement, and limits. 
 
9.  Dual-military PCS guidance.  Dual-military Service Members 
conducting concurrent PCS moves have separate Lines of Accounting 
and funding allocated.  Therefore, Service Members shall each use 
their GTCC for respective PCS expenses (meals, fuel, etc.) in 
accordance with this NAVADMIN and file separate MyPCS Travel 
Vouchers for individual travel. 
 
10.  MyPCS Travel Voucher. 
   a.  Use of the MyPCS Travel Voucher greatly reduces errors and 
expedites reimbursement.  It provides Service Members the ability to 
submit an electronic travel voucher with photo upload functionality 
for receipts using a personal or government computer, mobile device 
or tablet.  Additional capabilities of MyPCS Travel Voucher include 
the travel entitlements calculator, lean orders, and a custom- 
tailored PCS checklist for use before departure.  It also gives 
Service Members and CPPAs greater visibility of the status of 
submitted PCS Travel Vouchers.  MyPCS Travel Voucher may be accessed 
via MyNavy Portal (MNP) at https://my.navy.mil/. 
   b.  Effective 01 Jul 2022, use of the MyPCS Travel Voucher is 
mandatory for submission of PCS travel claims.  The enterprise 
Customer Relationship Management (eCRM) system is a backup solution 
if unable to use MyPCS Travel Voucher; however, the use of eCRM will 
delay timely travel claim liquidation. 
   c.  Use of the MyPCS Travel Voucher is not required for GTCC 
users reporting to Aircraft Carriers (CVN), Submarine Tenders (AS) 
and Flag Ships (LCC).  MyPCS Travel Voucher will be expanded to 
these commands this fall. 
   d.  CAC-free access using a mobile device requires the Service 
Member to establish a CAC-free user name and password via MNP. 
Using a CAC-enabled machine, go to MNP, click "Login" in the top 
right corner, select "Login Help & FAQs" from the drop-down, then 
select "How do I set up CAC-free Access?"  Follow directions 
provided on the page.  Video tutorials are available 
athttps://my.navy.mil/tutorials.html.  Once a CAC-free account is 
established, the password is valid for 60 days. 
 
11.  Customer Support and Online Resources. 
   a.  Phone and email support is available 24/7 from the MNCC Pro 
Cell at 833-330-MNCC (6622) Option 2 or via e-mail at: 
askmncc(at)navy.mil, or from Citibank (800-200-7056). 
   b.  MNP registration for CAC-free access to MNP: 
https://my.navy.mil/tutorials.html andhttps://www.mnp.navy.mil/group/my-
account/cac-free-setup/. 
   c.  MyPCS Travel Voucher via MNP: https://my.navy.mil/. 
   d.  GTCC for PCS information guide and training briefs: 
https://www.mynavyhr.navy.mil/Support-Services/Pay-Pers-Support/My-Personnel-
Info/GTCC-for-PCS/. 
   e.  Downloadable NP2 quick start guides: https://my.navy.mil/np2.html. 
   f.  User Productivity Kits (UPKs) and interactive training 
modules: https://prodhr.np2.navy.mil/ and navigating to "Training" 
in the top menu, select "Assignment, Leave, and Travel". 
   g.  Questions regarding this NAVADMIN or GTCC for PCS policy 
should be addressed to PERS-45 Assignment, Leave, and Travel 
Business Design Owner (BDO) at gtcc_pcs.fct(at)navy.mil.  Questions 
regarding MyPCS Travel Voucher and issues using your GTCC during PCS 
should be addressed to MNCC. 
 
12.  To evaluate program effectiveness, Service Member satisfaction, 
and collect feedback for continued improvements, GTCC users are 
strongly encouraged to complete a brief survey available at 
https://surveys.max.gov/index.php/737856?lang=en. 
 
13.  Released by Vice Admiral John B. Nowell, Jr, N1.// 
 
BT 
#0001 
NNNN 
UNCLASSIFIED//
