UNCLASSIFIED//

ROUTINE

R 032039Z APR 20 MID110000551267U

FM CNO WASHINGTON DC

TO NAVADMIN

INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC

BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 099/20

PASS TO OFFICE CODES:
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/APR//

SUBJ/MOBILIZATION PROCESSING OF NAVY RESERVE PERSONNEL IN SUPPORT OF
COVID-19 RESPONSE OPERATIONS//

REF/A/DOC/TITLE 10 U.S.C.//

REF/B/DOC/TITLE 10 U.S.C.//

REF/C/DOC/TITLE 10 U.S.C.//

REF/D/DOC/OPNAV/17AUG18//

REF/E/MSG/CNO WASHINGTON DC//

REF/F/DOC/DOD/07JUN16//

NARR/REF A IS TITLE 10 U.S.C. 12304, SELECTED RESERVE AND CERTAIN INDIVIDUAL 
READY RESERVE MEMBERS; ORDER TO ACTIVE DUTY OTHER THAN DURING WAR OR NATIONAL 
EMERGENCY.  REF B IS TITLE 10 U.S.C. 12302, READY RESERVE.  REF C IS TITLE 10 
U.S.C. 12301, RESERVE COMPONENTS GENERALLY.  REF D IS OPNAVINST 3060.7C, NAVY 
AUGMENTATION GUIDE.
REF E IS NAVADMIN 080/20, NAVY MITIGATION MEASURES IN RESPONSE TO CORONAVIRUS 
OUTBREAK UPDATE-3.  REF F IS DODI 1235.12, ACCESSING THE RESERVE 
COMPONENT(RC).//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN directs alternate mobilization processing for Sailors 
of the Ready Reserve ordered to Active-Duty pursuant to references (a) or (b) 
in support of Navy Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic response.

2.  The Navy Reserve is supporting response to the COVID-19 pandemic by 
activating Ready Reserve Sailors in support of assigned missions.
Due to the dynamic, urgent and widespread nature of this crisis, some initial 
Selected Reserve (SELRES) activations were voluntary, pursuant to reference 
(c).  To facilitate additional Combatant Commander (CCDR) and/or Service 
demand on the Reserve Components (RC) of the armed forces, the Department of 
Defense anticipates involuntary mobilization of RC forces for COVID-19 
response.  These mobilizations will be in addition to ongoing mobilizations 
in support of CCDRs globally.

3.  In line with reference (d), mobilizing Sailors are required to process 
through a Navy Mobilization Processing Site (NMPS) overseen by the 
Expeditionary Combat Readiness Command (ECRC).  This NAVADMIN provides an 
exception to policy to this processing requirement for mobilizing Sailors 
providing Navy COVID-19 response.  This will reduce risk to force health by 
reducing travel in line with reference (e).  It will also reduce risk to 
mission since many SELRES Sailors mobilizing for COVID-19 will already be 
serving at their supported commands on voluntary orders.  Conversion to 
involuntary mobilization orders will be necessary to ensure Sailors receive 
appropriate benefits, to align emergency appropriations to
COVID-19 missions and to ensure sufficient duration of orders to complete the 
mission.  Significant risk to mission would occur if these Sailors were 
forced to travel to an NMPS simply to convert to mobilization orders.

4.  To mitigate risk, SELRES mobilizing in support of CONUS based
COVID-19 response missions should be pre-screened, activated and processed by 
their Navy Reserve Activity (NRA) or Navy Operational Support Center (NOSC) 
and then proceed directly to their supported command with minimal 
intermediate stops.  Navy Region Reserve Component Commanders and Naval Air 
Force Reserve (CNAFR) Wings, with oversight and coordination provided by 
Commander, Navy Reserve Force (CNRF), will certify, manage and approve the 
NRAs/NOSCs within their regions/wings to conduct COVID-19 mobilization 
processing.
Mobilization processing risks will be specifically controlled by:
     a.  Adhering to existing mobilization readiness and active-duty 
screening requirements.  Screening shall include, but not be limited to, 
verifying total active service time, medical requirement completion and 
certification of required training.  Additionally, medical personnel will be 
screened for any potential adverse impact to the nation's civilian pandemic 
response because of their civilian occupations.
     b.  In line with references (d) and (f), all Ready Reserve Sailors 
nominated for mobilization pursuant to reference (b) will be screened for 
dwell and notification timeline constraints.  Any required waivers will be 
processed accordingly.
     c.  The NRA or NOSC performing COVID-19 mobilization processing will 
maintain responsibility for the Sailors it processes throughout the full 
mobilization cycle, to include demobilization.
     d.  Valid Navy mobilization mission requirements are approved by Deputy 
Chief of Navy Operations, Plans and Strategy (OPNAV N3/N5) via Commander, 
U.S. Fleet Forces Command (USFF), in line with reference (d).  Accordingly, 
mobilizations supporting OCONUS requirements will be processed in line with 
reference (d) unless otherwise approved by USFF.

5.  Service Members of the Individual Ready Reserve activating in support of 
COVID-19 response missions will process in line with the procedures 
prescribed above with concurrence and coordination between CNRF and 
Commander, Navy Personnel Command (PERS-9).

6.  All other aspects regarding Navy mobilizations, to include tracking, 
reporting, and policy compliance, will be in line with reference (d).

7.  USFF, CNPC and CNRF will collect lessons learned to inform ongoing 
Distributed Mobilization working groups of ways to improve Navy's 
mobilization processes in the future.

8.  This NAVADMIN will remain in effect until superseded or canceled, 
whichever occurs first.

9.  Released by Vice Admiral John B. Nowell, Jr, N1.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//

