UNCLASSIFIED 
ROUTINE 
R 311911Z MAR 22 MID200001624499U 
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC 
TO NAVADMIN 
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC 
BT 
UNCLAS 
 
NAVADMIN 084/22 
 
MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/MAR// 
 
SUBJ/TRANSITION OF ENLISTED SERVICE MEMBERS FROM ACTIVE COMPONENT TO 
THE SELECTED RESERVE// 
 
REF/A/DOC/COMNAVPERSCOM/18APR20// 
REF/B/DOD/COMNAVPERSCOM/17DEC19// 
 
NARR/REF A IS MILPERSMAN 1306-1501, ENLISTED ACTIVE COMPONENT TO RESERVE 
COMPONENT (AC2SELRES/AC2FTS) TRANSITION PROCEDURES.   
REF B IS MILPERSMAN 1160-140, CAREER WAYPOINTS-REENLISTMENT. 
 
RMKS/1.  The purpose of this NAVADMIN is to ensure that Navy 
leaders, Active Component (AC) command career counselors (CCC) and 
Sailors are aware of the exciting opportunities for enlisted 
personnel who are approaching the expiration of their AC service 
obligation and who wish to take advantage of the continued benefits 
of naval service in the Reserve Component (RC) Selected Reserve 
(SELRES).  Additional guidance on the Active Component to Selected 
Reserve (AC2SELRES) transition procedures can be found in reference 
(a).  The SELRES provides Sailors an opportunity to continue naval 
service in a part-time status, while maintaining access to service 
benefits, including Tricare Reserve Select Medical and Tricare 
Dental Programs available for qualified SELRES and their eligible 
family members.  Current policy also allows up to 2 years of 
deferment from mobilization and up to 180 days of premium-free 
Tricare Transitional Assistance Management Program (TAMP) medical 
coverage, from the date of separation from Active Duty.  To qualify 
for TAMP, Sailors must become a SELRES the day immediately following 
release from Active Duty service.  Additionally, AC2SELRES Sailors 
may qualify for an affiliation bonus, Post-9/11 GI Bill 
transferability opportunities and/or the Montgomery GI Bill - 
Selected Reserve.  Navy CCCs are essential members of the command 
retention team and are tasked with counseling Sailors about 
opportunities and benefits of joining the SELRES, and helping to 
facilitate the AC2SELRES application process.  Counseling can occur 
at the individual level, during retention team training or while 
conducting a career development board. 
 
2.  Eligibility.  Sailors and CCCs should review eligibility 
criteria outlined in reference (a).  In fiscal year (FY) 2022 and 
FY-23, the Navy Reserve has ample AC2SELRES affiliation 
opportunities for all eligible Sailors. 
 
3.  AC2SELRES Quota Request Procedures and Best Practices.  Sailors 
who wish to affiliate in the SELRES may submit an application 
through career waypoints-reenlistment (C-WAY-REEN) module prior to 
their end of active obligated service (EAOS) or soft end of active 
obligated service (SEAOS) expiration, if applicable and no later 
than 90 days from EAOS or SEAOS expiration.  Reference (b) provides 
additional information and guidance regarding C-WAY. 
    a.  Sailors are encouraged to submit their C-WAY-REEN 
applications 3-10 months prior to their EOAS or SEAOS.  Sailors with 
less than 90 days prior to their EAOS or SEAOS who desire direct 
transition to the RC as a SELRES are required to have their CCC 
contact the MyNavy Career Center (MNCC) to request a SELRES quota 
via electronic personnel action request (NAVPERS 1306/7). 
    b.  Sailors with more than 14 years of service and E-7 or above 
requesting AC2SELRES transition should route a command-endorsed 
NAVPERS 1306/7 to the Reserve Enlisted Community Managers (BUPERS- 
352) for consideration via MNCC.  CCCs should note the Sailors 
desired drilling location.  Sailors who do not receive a RC quota 
prior to separating from AC must contact a Navy Reserve prior 
service recruiter, if they desire to affiliate with the RC as a 
SELRES Sailor and will not be eligible for TAMP. 
    c.  Sailors should complete their application for AC2SELRES 
affiliation prior to commencing terminal leave, particularly for 
ease of access to their CCC and medical and dental as required to 
complete the SELRES affiliation check list (NAVPERS 1306/97).  Prior 
to commencing terminal leave, Sailors must ensure that their contact 
information is correct in the Navy Standard Integrated Personnel 
System. 
    d.  Sailors are encouraged to apply for in-rate opportunities 
first, with indication of a willingness to convert to a new rate. 
Qualified Sailors willing to convert to a new rate are encouraged to 
review community health considerations with their CCC at 
https://www.mynavyhr.navy.mil/Career-Management/Community-
Management/Enlisted/Selected-Reserves/SELRES-Overviews/.  If Sailors 
are willing to convert to a new rate, their preferred rate (with 
specificity of no more than three rating conversion choices) should 
be included in their application.  Sailors may be selected for rate 
conversion, but must be properly counseled for conversion program 
requirements - to include required block learning, school completion 
deadlines, Navy wide advancement exam requirements, drilling 
obligations and/or eligibility/obligations for financial incentives. 
    e.  Once approved for SELRES affiliation, the Career Transition 
Office (CTO) (PERS-97) will contact transitioning Sailors directly 
to facilitate seamless AC2SELRES transition.  CTO is responsible for 
preparing and providing all affiliation documents for Sailors, via 
their CCC, to review, sign and return to their CTO transition 
assistant prior to the Sailors EAOS or terminal leave start date. 
CTO will counsel Sailors on transition benefits, service obligations 
and eligibility for incentives.  Once processed for affiliation, CTO 
will facilitate the introduction of transitioning Sailors to their 
assigned Navy Reserve Center (NRC).  Sailors will coordinate with 
their assigned NRC for scheduling their first drill weekend, 
completion of onboarding requirements and attending command 
indoctrination once orders are received.  Additional information can 
be found at the CTO website at https://www.mynavyhr.navy.mil/Career-
Management/Transition/. 
 
4.  Request Screening and Approval Process.  BUPERS-352 screens and 
adjudicates all C-WAY-REEN applications for eligibility to serve in 
the SELRES. 
    a.  Sailors transitioning from AC2SELRES will generally not be 
approved in C-WAY-REEN or processed for affiliation if they are not 
qualified.  Sailors who fall into this category are those who: 
        (1) Do not meet eligibility requirements for reenlistment. 
        (2) Do not meet minimum armed services vocational aptitude 
battery requirements (may be waived on a case-by-case basis for rate 
conversions). 
        (3) Are not medically cleared for separation from AC. 
        (4) Do not meet additional screening requirements for 
rating-specific applications.  For example, engineering aides must 
possess transcripts documenting trigonometry completion.  Also, 
Sailors who are trying to convert to Information Warfare Command 
ratings and do not hold top secret or sensitive compartmentalized 
information security clearances, must complete the special security 
officer Navy personnel screening interview with their security 
managers. 
    b.  In the event of quota request disapproval, CCCs should read 
the C-WAY notes section for their applicants.  A denial does not 
necessarily mean a Sailor will not have the opportunity to 
affiliate.  It simply means there may be additional actions required 
for more detailed screening requirements. 
    c.  If a Sailor subsequently becomes ineligible to affiliate in 
the Navy Reserve in line with references (a) and (b) after an 
approved NAVPERS 1306/97 has been sent to the CTO, the CCC must 
rescind the Sailors approved SELRES quota via the C-WAY-REEN module 
and contact the CTO accordingly. 
 
5.  Navy leaders and CCCs should encourage all eligible Sailors to 
stay Navy.  For those Sailors who choose to leave Active Duty at 
EAOS, please ensure they have the necessary information about the 
AC2SELRES Program in order to make an informed decision about 
continuing their naval career in the SELRES.  The SELRES offers 
exciting opportunities and exceptional benefits that will ease their 
transition from Active Duty and can supplement civilian employment 
benefits for them and their family. 
 
6.  Points of contact 
    a.  MyNavy Career Center at 1-833-330-MNCC or via e-mail 
askmncc(at)navy.mil. 
    b.  BUPERS-352 SELRES Enlisted Community Management at 
901-874-4508/DSN 882-4508 or via e-mail BUPERS-352(at)navy.mil. 
    c.  PERS-97 Career Transition Office via e-mail at 
cto.enlisted(at)navy.mil. 
 
7.  Released by Vice Admiral John B. Nowell, Jr, N1.// 
 
BT 
#0001 
NNNN 
UNCLASSIFIED//
