UNCLASSIFIED//

ROUTINE

R 211331Z MAY 21 MID200000877953U

FM CNO WASHINGTON DC

TO NAVADMIN

INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC

BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 100/21

PASS TO OFFICE CODES:
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/MAY//

SUBJ/CANCELLATION OF URINALYSIS POLICY UPDATE//

REF/A/MSG/CNO WASHINGTON DC/272107ZMAR20//
REF/B/DOC/N1/4JUN09//
REF/C/WEBPAGE/CDC//
REF/D/DOC/UPC OPGUIDE//

NARR/REF A IS NAVADMIN 092/20, URINALYSIS POLICY UPDATE.  REF B IS OPNAVINST 
5350.4D, NAVY ALCOHOL AND DRUG ABUSE PREVENTION AND CONTROL.  REF C IS 
CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL AND PREVENTION (CDC) COVID-19 HOW TO PROTECT 
YOURSELF AVAILABLE AT HTTPS://WWW.CDC.GOV/CORONAVIRUS/2019-
NCOV/PREPARE/PREVENTION.HTML.  REF D IS THE URINALYSIS PROGRAM COORDINATOR
(UPC) OPERATIONAL GUIDE (OPGUIDE).//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN announces the cancellation of reference (a), a 
temporary amendment to the Navy urinalysis program to minimize Sailor 
exposure to Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19) from 27 March 2020 and 
provides recommendations for safe collection procedures.  This cancellation 
aligns with the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) announcement 
supporting the safe return to many activities halted during the pandemic.
Additionally, maintaining a robust and drug free workplace is Navys best 
deterrence to misuse of illicit and prescription drugs.

2.  Commands will return to normal testing procedures and requirements as 
outlined in reference (b), including the requirement in paragraph 6.a., 
enclosure (2) to provide their echelon 3 commander with the reason for 
failing to comply with reference (b).  This includes areas/situational 
environments where COVID-19 restrictions limit or prevent normal testing 
implementation.  Commands shall not recall individuals who are restricted in 
movement or quarantined, except in cases of probable cause, or as determined 
by the commanding officer in consultation with local judge advocate general 
officer.  Telework does not excuse an individual from participating in 
urinalysis.

3.  Sailors assigned to non-Navy activities will follow the policy of those 
activities.

4.  Commands shall continue to observe the most recent safeguards as 
recommended by the CDC in reference (c).
    a.  All urinalysis specimen collection testing shall comply with Office 
of the Chief of Naval Operations (OPNAV) policies and should follow CDC 
Health Guidance.
    b.  All participants should engage in safe hygiene practices, which may 
include wearing a mask, hand washing, maintaining social distance and 
refraining from touching their face or as stated in reference (c).
    c.  Administrators should wipe down all surfaces contacted (after each
contact) throughout collection to include tables, faucets and door handles.
    d.  The Urinalysis Program Coordinator (UPC) and an assigned person 
(observer or other) shall check each bottle cap for tightness as outlined in 
reference (d).
    e.  Sailors, UPCs and observers should avoid personal touch as necessary 
and should wash their hands after any contact during this process.

5.  For additional information or questions, the urinalysis program point of 
contact is Ms. LaNorfeia Parker, OPNAV N173, at (901) 874-4249/DSN 882 or 
lanorfeia.parker(at)navy.mil.

6.  This NAVADMIN will remain in effect until superseded or canceled, 
whichever occurs first.

7.  Released by Vice Admiral John B. Nowell, Jr, N1.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//


