CLASSIFICATION: UNCLASSIFIED//
ROUTINE
R 221735Z FEB 24 MID120000905950U
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC
BT
UNCLAS
 
NAVADMIN 036/24

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/FEB//

SUBJ/ESTABLISHMENT OF THE ROBOTICS WARFARE SPECIALIST RATING//

REF/A/DOC/18JUL2008/
AMPN/REF A IS NAVPERS 18068F, MANUAL OF NAVY ENLISTED MANPOWER AND PERSONNEL 
CLASSIFICATIONS AND OCCUPATIONAL STANDARDS (NEOCS)//

RMKS/1.  In line with reference (a), this NAVADMIN announces the 
establishment of the Robotics Warfare Specialist (RW) general rating.  RW 
Sailors will enable Robotic and Autonomous System (RAS) operations and 
maintenance at the tactical edge.  RWs will be the subject matter experts for 
computer vision, mission autonomy, navigation autonomy, data systems, 
artificial intelligence and machine learning on our RAS platforms.

2.  The RW rating is a major milestone in our Navy's relentless march to 
achieve a truly hybrid Fleet.  This dedicated robotics rating will accelerate 
development of deep expertise in rapidly advancing autonomous technologies.  
This new rating is now open to Active Duty Sailors.  Selected Reserve 
(SELRES) Sailors will be integrated into the RW rating at a later date.

3.  The primary source ratings for RW conversions will be all those currently 
or previously assigned to billets in unmanned vehicle divisions and Sailors 
who have earned applicable Navy Enlisted Classification (NEC) codes.  E-4 
through E-9 Active Duty Sailors meeting those criteria may submit an 
Electronic Personnel Action Request (NAVPERS 1306/7) to the Bureau of Naval 
Personnel, Enlisted Community Management Division (BUPERS-32).  Interested 
applicants can find applicable NEC codes, conversion package requirements, 
and procedures posted on the MyNavy HR robotics community website:
https://www.mynavyhr.navy.mil/Career-Management/Community-
Management/Enlisted/Robotics-Warfare/.

4.  All Active Duty ratings are open for conversion to RW, but it is 
important to note that this will initially be a small and highly selective 
rating.  All Sailor requests for conversion to RW are required to be 
forwarded to BUPERS-32 expeditiously.  However, BUPERS-32 will consider the 
recommendations of the current command and losing rating community manager.  
Any recommendations for denying conversion to RW for an otherwise qualified 
candidate shall be adjudicated by Director, Military Community Management 
(BUPERS-

3).  Rating conversion requests will be accepted on a rolling basis.
Successful applicants will be notified by BUPERS-32.  SELRES dates and 
requirements will be published in the future.

5.  The following is the first Navy-Wide AD RW Advancement Exam
schedule:
    a.  E-5 and E-6:  September 2024 (Cycle 264)
    b.  E-7:  January 2025 (Cycle 266)

6.  The following is the first E-7 and E-8/E-9 RW selection/screening board 
schedule:
    a.  E-8 and E-9 (Active Duty):  March 2025 (FY26 Board)
    b.  E-7 (Active Duty):  July 2025 (FY26 Board)

7.  All Sailors that have successfully screened to compete for a higher 
paygrade billet in the Senior Enlisted Marketplace will have the remaining 
portion of the two-year screened status honored in the RW rating.  Sailors 
that have been selected for advancement but have not yet incremented will be 
accessed into the RW rating at the higher paygrade.

8.  This NAVADMIN does not modify any previous guidance concerning early 
separation, Fleet reserve, conversion packages, Career Waypoints (CWAY) 
reenlistment requests, or Reserve affiliation requests.  CWAY reenlistment 
requests dated prior to the RW paygrade conversion date shall be submitted 
per the source rating.  Selective Reenlistment Bonus and SELRES affiliation 
bonus payments for Sailors selected for conversion to RW will continue to be 
paid after the RW paygrade conversion date.

9.  For questions about the application process or about the RW rating, 
contact the RW Enlisted Community Manager (ECM) or the Reserve RW Enlisted 
Community Manager (RECM):
    a.  ECM:  RWCM Christopher M. Rambert at (901) 874-2195/DSN 882, or by at 
email christopher.m.rambert.mil@us.navy.mil or rw_com_mgr.fct@us.navy.mil.
    b.  RECM:  PSC Alejandro Marquez (BUPERS-352) at (901) 874- 3193/DSN 882, 
or by e-mail at alejandro.marquez.mil@us.navy.mil or 
rw_com_mgr.fct@us.navy.mil.

10.  For detailer related questions about the RW rating, contact the RW 
detailer:  FCACS Lyle S. Pluid, RW Liaison (PERS-40) at (901) 874-3779/ DSN 
882, or by e-mail lyle.s.pluid.mil@us.navy.mil.

11.  This NAVADMIN will remain in effect until superseded or canceled, 
whichever occurs first.

12.  Released by Vice Admiral Richard J. Cheeseman, Jr., N1.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
CLASSIFICATION: UNCLASSIFIED//

