UNCLASSIFIED//

ROUTINE

R 131715Z APR 21 MID600050482077U

FM CNO WASHINGTON DC

TO NAVADMIN

INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC

BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 079/21

PASS TO OFFICE CODES:
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//DNS//

MSGID/NAVADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/DNS/APR//

SUBJ/2021 MRS. SYBIL STOCKDALE OMBUDSMAN OF THE YEAR AWARD//

REF/A/DOC/OPNAV/2SEP14//

AMPN/REF A IS OPNAVINST 1750.1G, THE NAVY FAMILY OMBUDSMAN PROGRAM.// 
POC/LITTLER, BRANDY/CIV/CNIC WASHINGTON DC/N9/EMAIL:
BRANDY.LITTLER(AT)NAVY.MIL/TEL:  (202) 433-4701//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN announces the annual Mrs. Sybil Stockdale Ombudsman of 
the Year Award nomination and selection process for 2021.  Navy Ombudsman who 
have served in good standing for at least one year culminating no later than 
the due date in paragraph 6.a are eligible to be nominated for the 2021 
award.

2.  This award is inspired by Mrs. Sybil Stockdale, who set an unflagging 
example for her support for families of other prisoners of war during the 
seven year internment in Southeast Asia of her husband, Vice Admiral James 
Bond Stockdale.  The Ombudsman of the Year Award is presented to Ombudsmen 
who have served their command and Navy families with selfless dedication and 
commitment to family readiness.  One Ombudsman of the Year will be selected 
from each of the following four categories:
    a.  Afloat Command (Commander, U.S. Fleet Forces Comma(COMUSFLTFORCOM)).
    b.  Afloat Command (Commander, U.S. Pacific Fleet Command (COMPACFLT)).
    c.  Reserve Command (Commander, Navy Reserve Force 
Command(COMNAVRESFOR)).
    d.  Ashore Command.  The following commands are authorized to submit one 
nomination each to Director, Navy staff (per paragraph 6.a):
          (1) Each Echelon 2 Navy Shore Activity (direct report to OPNAV)
          (2) COMUSFLTFORCOM
          (3) COMPACFLT
          (4) U.S. Naval Forces Europe/U.S. Naval Forces Africa

3.  Criteria for Ombudsman of the Year
    a.  Must have demonstrated the ability to effectively communicate between 
the Navy family and the command.
    b.  Must have maintained the highest standards of professionalism and 
confidentiality while providing a positive example for command members and 
families.
    c.  Must have facilitated and promoted a healthy sense of community among 
command families by assisting and supporting Navy families to include 
emergencies, mobilization, or deployment.
    d.  Must have demonstrated consistent compliance with training, data 
collection, and required reports per reference (a).

4.  Eligibility requirements for Ombudsman of the Year
    a.  Award nominees must be registered in the Ombudsman Registry, 
https://ombudsmanregistry.cnic.navy.mil, and have distinguished themselves in 
supporting Navy families.
    b.  Must have served as an Ombudsman in good standing for at least one 
year and embody the core values of the Ombudsman Program.

5.  Submit nomination packages in the following format
    a.  Cover letter to category sponsors via the chain of command, with the 
following enclosures.
    b.  Enclosure (1)  Summary of action, not to exceed two pages, addressing 
each of the criterion set forth in paragraph 3 (above).
    c.  Enclosure (2)  Short biography of the nominee.
    d.  Enclosure (3)  Letter from the Fleet and Family Support Center 
Director or Navy Operational Support Center (NOSC) validating involvement in 
Ombudsman assemblies and advanced training.
    e.  Enclosure (4), as needed:  Additional supporting information (e.g., a 
letter of support for nomination from former Commanding Officers, Command 
Point of Contact, or Command Support Team; letters of appreciation presented 
by Commanding Officers or family members).

6.  Nomination and selection process.
    a.  Packages are due no later than 14 May 2021.  Submit Afloat and 
Reserve Command nomination packages to the appropriate organizations in 
paragraphs 2a, b and c (above).
Submit Ashore Command nomination packages to Director, Navy Staff, CMDCM 
Michael Carbone at michael.g.carbone(AT)navy.mil.
    b.  COMUSFLTFORCOM, COMPACFLT and COMNAVRESFORCOM will select a finalist 
for their respective category and provide awardee information to Director, 
Navy Staff no later than 14 June 2021 for inclusion in a NAVADMIN announcing 
all four winners.

7.  TYCOMs or designated representative will present awards in September 
2021, during an Ombudsman Appreciation event.

8.  Additional information is located at 
www.cnic.navy.mil/OmbudsmanOfTheYear.

9.  Released by Mr. Andrew S. Haeuptle,  Director, Navy Staff.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//


