CLASSIFICATION: UNCLASSIFIED//

ROUTINE

R 121417Z APR 23 MID200080889941U

FM CNO WASHINGTON DC

TO NAVADMIN

INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC

BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 084/23

PASS TO OFFICE CODES:
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/APR//

SUBJ/APPLICATION FOR ASSIGNMENT TO THE U.S. NAVY CEREMONIAL GUARD//

REF/A/DOC/COMNAVPERSCOM/19NOV22//
REF/B/DOC/DOD/15DEC98//
REF/C/DOC/DOD/30NOV98//
REF/D/DOC/SECNAVINST/14APR15//
REF/E/MSG/NAVADMIN/091914ZMAR22//

NARR/REF A IS MILPERSMAN ARTICLE 1306-907, NAVY CEREMONIAL GUARD.
REF B IS DOD DIRECTIVE 5210.55, DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE PRESIDENTIAL SUPPORT 
PROGRAM.  
REF C IS DOD INSTRUCTION 5210.87, SELECTION OF DOD MILITARY AND CIVILIAN 
PERSONNEL AND CONTRACTOR EMPLOYEES FOR ASSIGNMENT TO PRESIDENTIAL SUPPORT 
ACTIVITIES.
REF D IS SECNAVINST 6810.1, OPHTHALMIC SERVICES.  REF E IS NAVADMIN 064/22, 
BUPERSINST 1000.22C MANAGEMENT OF NAVY UNIFORMED PERSONNEL DIAGNOSED WITH 
PSEUDOFOLLICULITIS BARBAE (PFB) UPDATE//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN solicits motivated officer (O3-O5) and enlisted (E4-
E9) applicants for duty with the United States National Ceremonial Guard 
(USNCG).  Interested volunteers, who meet the criteria described below and in 
references (a) through (c), are eligible to apply for billets as early as 15 
months from their projected rotation date.

2.  Enlisted approved applicants are eligible to receive one of two Special 
Duty Assignment Pays, either as a Recruit Division Commander (NEC-8RDC) 
(limited billets) or as Staff Ceremonial Specialist.

3.  Established in 1931, the USNCG is a Presidential support unit in line 
with references (b) and (c) and is the official ceremonial unit of the Navy.  
Located in Washington, D.C., the primary mission of the USNCG is to represent 
the service in Presidential, Joint Armed Forces, Navy, and public ceremonies 
in the National Capital Region and around the world.  Members of the USNCG 
participate in some of the most prestigious ceremonies including Presidential 
inaugurations, State Funerals, White House ceremonies, and arrival ceremonies 
for foreign officials in our Nation's capital.  In addition, the USNCG 
conducts all funeral honors for Navy personnel and their dependents buried in 
the Arlington National Cemetery.  Elements of the command, such as the U.S. 
Navy Drill Team and the U.S. Navy Color Guard, regularly represent the Navy 
in public events (Navy Weeks, Fleet Weeks, public parades, ship's 
commissioning ceremonies, and professional sporting events) across the 
country.

4.  Volunteers (both officer and enlisted) must be strong leaders who are 
ready to serve as role models to large numbers of junior Sailors.  Volunteers 
must always operate with maturity and tact and be exceptional and disciplined 
representatives of the U.S.
Navy, both on and off duty.  They must have an impeccable appearance, 
excellent military bearing, and meet the following height requirements 
(waiverable by USNCG commanding officer (CO) on a case-by-case basis for 
exceptional candidates):
    a.  Male:  minimum 6 feet.
    b.  Female:  minimum 5 feet 5 inches.

5.  Volunteers (both officer and enlisted) must meet the minimum 
qualifications contained in references (a) through (c) and the following 
additional requirements:
    a.  No driving under the influence or driving while intoxicated 
convictions within the last 5 years.
    b.  No excessive debt.  The command financial specialist should evaluate 
the debt-to-income ratio of the member.
    c.  Be able to participate in public ceremonies without glasses (contact 
lenses are acceptable).  While assigned to the USNCG, Navy medicine is 
authorized to provide prescription contact lenses at the government's expense 
in line with reference (d).
    d.  Be capable of strenuous marching, drilling, and prolonged standing.
    e.  Must be a U.S. citizen and hold at minimum a valid secret clearance.
    f.  No trait below 3.0 for the past three evaluation periods.
    g.  Overall physical fitness test category score is a good low or higher 
and within body composition assessment standards.
    h.  Must be able to shave to conduct Navy and Joint ceremonies on a 
routine basis.  Due to mission requirements and tasking, the USNCG must 
maintain a tighter standard than is outlined in reference (e).  Members 
diagnosed with Pseudofolliculitis barbae, please contact the USNCG to discuss 
the possibility of a waiver.

6.  Interested enlisted candidates meeting the above requirements must submit 
a completed Enlisted Personnel Action Request (NAVPERS 1306/7) to their 
rating detailer via their CO, requesting release to shore special programs 
for assignment to the USNCG.  Once released, the Shore Special Programs 
Branch
(PERS-4010) detailer will release a screening message to the command with 
application requirements.  Once the application package is received and 
reviewed, a telephone interview will be arranged with the USNCG command 
master chief.  Because of the challenging nature of duty onboard the USNCG, 
enlisted candidates whose records reflect that they have succeeded in this 
assignment may be viewed positively on future enlisted advancement boards.

7.  Interested officers should contact their detailer and review references 
(a) through (c) for specific requirements.  A telephone interview will be 
arranged with the USNCG CO and the following additional requirements:
    a.  Submit a copy of the last three fitness reports.
    b.  Full-length official photograph in the uniform of the day.
    c.  Last three performance fitness assessment cycle results.

8.  Additional information may be found on the USNCG website at:
https://ndw.cnic.navy.mil/About/Tenant-Commands/United-States-
Navy-Ceremonial-Guard/ or
https://www.facebook.com/usnceremonialguard/.  Check out the U.S.
Navy's official YouTube channel for a video about the Navy Ceremonial Guard 
at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6jxEiPQzJCY.

9.  This NAVADMIN will remain in effect until superseded or canceled, 
whichever comes first.

10.  Released by Vice Admiral Richard J. Cheeseman, Jr., N1.//

BT
#0001
NNNN

CLASSIFICATION: UNCLASSIFIED//

