ROUTINE

R 142314Z JAN 21 MID200000557398U

FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//

TO NAVADMIN

INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//

BT
UNCLAS
NAVADMIN 09/21

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/JAN//

SUBJ/FAMILY READINESS UPDATE//

REF/A/INST/OPNAVINST 1752.2C//
REF/B/DOC/US CODE/Title 10 U.S. Code Section 1089//
REF/C/INST/ MPM 1754.040//

NARR/REF A IS OPNAVINST 1752.2C, FAMILY ADVOCACY PROGRAM.  
REF B IS PUBLIC LAW 115-232, SECTION 1089.  
REF C IS MILPERSMAN 1754-040, MILITARY SPOUSE LICENSURE REIMBURSEMENT.

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN provides recent policy, program and resource
updates for Personal and Family Readiness Programs.

2.  Family Advocacy Program (FAP)
    a.  Reference (a) was recently updated with significant changes
for commanders including the identification and tracking of high
risk FAP cases to ensure continued treatment of Sailors and family
members, the outline of Family Advocacy Committee roles,
incorporation of child abuse reporting requirements, and
clarification of commanders roles and responsibilities in domestic
violence intervention and prevention, intimate partner violence,
child abuse, and neglect.  The instruction can be found at
https://www.secnav.navy.mil/doni/opnav.aspx.
    b.  Parenting Resources for Healthy Sexual Development in
Children and Youth.  In line with reference (b), the military
services are mandated to increase awareness of healthy sexual
development in children and youth family members by assisting
parents with healthy discussions with their children.  Commander,
Navy Installations Command (CNIC) developed *Parenting Resources for
Healthy Sexual Development in Children and Youth* videos that are
instructional in nature and intended for parents and caregivers.
These micro-learning videos will help with how to engage in
meaningful conversations with children about sexual development.
The parenting resources can be found via MyNavy Portal
https://www.mnp.navy.mil/group/sailor-and-family-support under the
Fleet and Family Support tab, Counseling Advocacy and Prevention,
Parenting Resources for Healthy Sexual Development in Children and
Youth.

3.  Financial Literacy Training
    a.  Navy e-Learning (NeL) financial readiness touchpoint
training courses have recently been rolled out to address all of the
mandatory financial literacy touchpoints, minus the *Initial Entry
Training* and *Transition* touchpoints.  The touchpoint training is
now delivered using micro-learning videos.  Sailors are provided
financial literacy training at personal and professional touchpoints
across the military lifecycle, beginning with recruit and officer
accessions training and continuing throughout a Service member's
career.  Sailors and family members can access additional training
or financial counseling through their Command Financial Specialist
or Fleet and Family Support Center Personal Financial Manager.
These courses are now available for enrollment on NeL.
    b.  The MyNavy Financial Literacy mobile application will soon
be updated to host the NeL touchpoint training courses which will
allow Sailors to complete the training on their smartphones and
submit course completion certificates to their Electronic Training
Jacket.
    c.  Information on financial literacy education is available via
MyNavy Portal https://www.mnp.navy.mil/group/sailor-and-family-
support under the 21st Century Sailor tab, Total Sailor Fitness,
Personal Financial Management.

4.  Transition Assistance Program (TAP).  As part of COVID-19
mitigation, the following alternatives are available for completion
of TAP classes:
    a.  CNIC has leveraged its Learning Management System (LMS) to
provide instructor led virtual TAP (VTAP) coursework, including the
career tracks.
        (1) As of 27 July 2020, all TAP modules, with the exception
of Veterans Affairs (VA) benefits briefing, are now part of VTAP
available through virtual LMS at http://mynavyfamily.com/ or for
NMCI users at
https://learning.zeiders.refineddata.com/login/index.php.
        (2) The VA benefits course must still be completed online
via Department of Defense (DoD) LMS TAP courses in line with
paragraph 4.b.
    b.  DoD has moved all non-instructor VTAP courses to the DoD LMS
vice Joint Knowledge Online.  TAP core course, additional tracks,
and Military Life Cycle course are available online at
https://www.tapevents.org/courses.
    c.  Self-assessment counseling, pre-separation counseling, and
capstone sessions are still required and may be conducted in-person
using proper social-distancing protocol or telephonically with
Command Career Counselors or TAP Managers.

5.  Spouse Licensure Reimbursement.  In line with reference (c),
Service members may be reimbursed for spouse licensure costs
associated with a permanent change of station move from one state to
another.
    a.  For orders issued 12 December 2017 to 19 December 2019, up
to $500 reimbursement of qualifying expenses is authorized.
    b.  For orders after 20 Dec 2019, the amount increases up to
$1000.
    c.  Go to MyNavy Portal https://www.mnp.navy.mil/group/sailor-
and-family-support under the 21st Century Sailor tab, Total Sailor
Fitness, Spouse Licensure or search *spouse licensure reimbursement*
on the MyNavy Family app for application information.

6.  MyNavy Family Smartphone Application.  This is the first tool
developed by the Navy with the support of over 1,100 spouses and
combines authoritative information from over two dozen websites into
a single application to support Navy families.  The application is
updated regularly and includes recently added resources to cope with
stresses of COVID-19 and can be found at the Navy App Locker.

7. Exceptional Family Member Program (EFMP)
    a.  EFMP Legal Assistance.  The Navy Judge Advocate General
community has launched a three-year pilot program in the Navy Region
Mid-Atlantic and Navy Region Southwest regions to provide expanded
legal assistance to families enrolled in the EFMP.  Two new civilian
lawyers will assist EFMP families seeking special education and
state and local disabilities benefits support, providing them with
direct counsel, advocacy, and training.  These new legal services
augment the support EFMP Case Liaisons already provide enrollees.
EFMP families in need of legal assistance should visit their nearest
Region Legal Service Office, which can be located at
https://www.jag.navy.mil/legal_services/legal_services_locator_rlso.
htm.
    b.  Navy EFMP Smartphone application.  The Navy released its
newly developed interactive EFMP application on 31 August 2020 to
provide guidance and support to Sailors whose family members have
chronic medical, mental health, and/or special education needs.  The
application includes essential EFMP information, frequently asked
questions, and handy resources.  The EFMP application can be
downloaded from the Apple and Google Store and via the Navy App
Locker located at https://www.applocker.navy.mil/#!/apps/17B6E14B-
2502-438C-880B-4D98B4512038.

8. This NAVADMIN will remain in effect until superseded or canceled,
whichever occurs first.

9. Released by Vice Admiral John B Nowell, Jr, N1.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
