UNCLASSIFIED// 
 
ROUTINE 
 
R 272107Z MAR 20 MID110000530450U 
 
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC 
 
TO NAVADMIN 
 
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC 
 
BT 
UNCLAS 

NAVADMIN 092/20 

PASS TO OFFICE CODES: 
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1// 
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1// 
 
MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/MAR// 
 
SUBJ/URINALYSIS POLICY UPDATE// 
 
REF/A/DOC/N1/4JUN09// 
 
REF/B/WEBPAGE/CDC// 
 
NARR/ REF A IS OPNAVINST 5350.4D, NAVY ALCOHOL AND DRUG ABUSE 
PREVENTION AND CONTROL.  REF B IS CENTER FOR DISEASE CONTROL (CDC) 
COVID-19 HOW TO PROTECT YOURSELF AVAILABLE AT 
HTTPS://WWW.CDC.GOV/CORONAVIRUS/2019-NCOV/PREPARE/PREVENTION.HTML // 
 
RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN announces a temporary amendment to the Navy 
urinalysis program to minimize Sailor exposure to Coronavirus-19 
(COVID-19) and adhere to social distancing requirements. 
 
2.  Commands will continue random urinalysis specimen collection 
from Sailors during the COVID-19 pandemic to the greatest extent 
possible.  Commanders and Commanding Officers may pause collection 
and/or reduce collection percentages and numbers of days collected 
if he/she deems it necessary to support maximum operational 
flexibility and/or COVID-19 mitigation efforts. 
    a.  Drug testing shall be conducted with no more than 10 people, 
including the urinalysis program coordinator (UPC) and observer, 
gathering for testing in one place at one time while maintaining 
social distancing of six feet at all times while continuing to 
follow all collection procedures outlined in reference (a). 
    b.  All command-directed, probable cause, mishap investigations 
and rehabilitation testing will continue in accordance with 
reference (a). 
    c.  Commands shall not recall individuals who are sick, 
restricted in movement (ROM), quarantined or self-monitoring and 
should not recall individuals who are teleworking or in a non-duty 
status to provide a drug testing specimen. 
    d.  Navy Drug Screening Laboratories (NDSL) will continue to 
operate and test these specimens. 
 
3.  Sailors assigned to non-Navy activities will follow the policy 
of those activities. 
 
4.  As a result of this temporary policy change, the requirement in 
paragraph 6.a., enclosure (2) of reference (a) to provide their 
echelon 3 commander with the reason for failing to comply with 
reference (a) is suspended until further notice. 
 
5.  Care must continue to be taken when conducting random urinalysis 
collections.  According to the Centers for Disease Control (CDC), it 
is not known whether non-respiratory body fluids such as urine can 
contain the virus.  The CDC indicates interpersonal contact 
continues to present the greatest risk of COVID-19 exposure.  Please 
adhere to the following processes to mitigate risks to exposure 
during urinalysis collections in line with reference (b). 
    a.  All urinalysis specimen collection testing shall comply with 
all current OPNAV policies and CDC Health Guidance. 
    b.  All participants must engage in safe hygiene practices, 
including hand washing, maintaining the six feet social distancing 
requirement, and refraining from touching their face. 
    c.  Administrators shall wipe down all surfaces contacted (after 
each contact) throughout collection to include tables and door 
handles. 
    d.  UPCs will not handle a specimen bottle after it has been in 
the possession/control of the Sailor.  Sailors providing a specimen 
will tighten the lids securely to avoid cross contamination, adhere 
labels, affix security tape on the specimen bottle and place their 
specimen bottle in a secondary container with absorbent materials 
under the observation and direction of the UPC.  Sailors should use 
their own pen to sign and initial during the process.  Additionally, 
UPCs should not handle the military identification card of the 
Sailor. 
    e.  Sailors, UPCs and observers must avoid personal touch and 
wash their hands after any contact during this process.  All must 
avoid the exchange of personal items (i.e., identification cards, 
pens, etc.). 
 
6.  For additional information or questions, the urinalysis program 
point of contact is Ms. LaNorfeia Parker, OPNAV N170D, at (901) 874- 
4249/DSN 882 or lanorfeia.parker(at)navy.mil. 
 
7.  This NAVADMIN will remain in effect until superseded or 
canceled, whichever occurs first. 
 
8.  Released by Vice Admiral John B. Nowell, Jr, N1.// 
 
BT 
#0001 
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
