CLASSIFICATION: UNCLASSIFIED//

ROUTINE

R 141430Z FEB 23 MID600052752720U

FM CNO WASHINGTON DC

TO NAVADMIN

BT
UNCLAS
NAVADMIN 034/23

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N9/FEB//

SUBJ/NAVY ATTENDANCE AT THE APRIL 2023 NAVY LEAGUE OF THE UNITED STATES SEA-
AIR -SPACE EXPOSITION//

REF/A/SECNAVINST 5050.6A/20OCT22//
REF/B/DON OGC/31JAN23/NOTAL//
REF/C/DOC/DOC 5500.07-R/17NOV11//

NARR/ REF A IS SECNAV CONFERENCE MANAGEMENT PROGRAM.
REF B IS OGC (ETHICS) EMAIL CONCERNING NAVY PARTICIPATION IN THE 2023 SEA-AIR 
-SPACE EXPOSITION.
REF C IS DOD PUBLICATION 5500.07-R JOINT ETHICS REGULATION.//

RMKS/1. The Navy League of the United States (NLUS) will hold its annual Sea-
Air -Space (SAS) exposition from 3 to 5 April, 2023 with a co-located youth 
Science, Technology, Engineering, and Math (STEM) exhibition on 2 April, 2023 
at the Gaylord National Resort and Conference Center, located in National 
Harbor, MD.
SAS provides a platform for the professional development of Department of the 
Navy personnel on the latest developments in naval warfare, as well as an 
opportunity for Navy engagement with representatives from a broad cross-
section of government, industry, academia, and international community.

2. The SAS schedule is designed with a focus on readiness and innovation, 
with panels covering topics such as acquisition, cyber, strategic sealift, 
leadership, shipbuilding, and manpower. SAS will showcase leaders from across 
the United States Navy, Marine Corps, Coast Guard, Merchant Marines, other 
governmental agencies, and industry. Additionally, many international 
delegations will be in attendance, including several Heads of Navy (HON). A 
full list of speakers and more information on international representation 
can be found at seaairspace.org/.

3. Per reference (a), attendance at non-DoD hosted conferences which have 
historically exceeded $500,000 may require SECNAV/UNSECNAV approval. SAS 2023 
meets this threshold. Therefore, requests for attendance shall be 
consolidated by Echelon-2 commands and provided to OPNAV N96 via a SECNAV 
report control symbol (RCS) 5050-1 Conference Request Form to N96 POC CDR 
Neil Gabriel, neil.r.gabriel.mil(at)us.navy.mil - (703)614-1957 or Mr. Bernie 
Carter at evon.b.carter.ctr(at)us.navy.mil - (571)256-7911, to track overall 
costs and attendance data. Conference requests are due no later than 1 March 
2023.
Overall approval of DON-wide attendance is expected in late-February. If no 
cost is incurred by the government (i.e. people local to area), no submission 
or approval is required. The following restrictions apply:
   a. Subject to command discretion, attendance is authorized for local 
participants at no cost to the government.
   b. SAS 2023 is primarily an East Coast event. Funded TAD travel from
   West                   Coast/International commands should be closely
   examined
   unless member has an active role in the event (sitting on a panel, making 
an
   official U.S. Navy presentation, etc.). Excessive attendance will be 
subject
   to
   cuts based on overall cost.
   c. NLUS has offered free attendance at the below twelve events to all
   military and civilian personnel. Because there is a maximum number of 
seats
   available, attendees are required to pre-register. Per reference (b), this
   free
   attendance does not constitute a gift for purposes of applicable ethics
   regulations, and therefore may be accepted by all military and civilian
   personnel.
       (1) Opening ceremonies and plenary sessions
       (2) Sea Services luncheon
       (3) Sea-Air-Space luncheon
       (4) Center for Maritime Strategy breakfast
       (5) Sea-Air-Space exhibit floor reception
       (6) Navy League of the United States luncheon
       (7) International maritime reception
       (8) Shuttle bus transportation to the conference site
       (9) Transition Connection, Hiring Event
       (10) Stem event, 2 April 2023
       (11) United States Coast Guard Breakfast
       (12) Navy League After-Hours concert
   d. Additionally, on the first day of SAS there is a Cohen Group breakfast
   that is an "invitation only" event. If invited, attendees should consult 
with
   their ethics counselor for assistance in determining whether attendance is
   permissible.
   e. All navy participation in SAS 2023 shall be consistent with the Joint
   Ethics Regulation per reference (c).

4. Registration information is available on the SAS website at 
seaairspace.org/.
There is no charge to attend the SAS for Navy qualified attendees, which 
include.
   a. Invited guests of the Navy League
   b. Active Duty and Reserve U.S. military
   c. Active Duty Military Spouses
   d. U.S. Federal, State, and Local government employees
   e. NLUS members

5. Within the National Capital Region, transportation to SAS 2023 will be 
available from the Pentagon, Naval Support Facility Arlington, Washington 
Navy Yard, Joint Base Anacostia-Bolling, Crystal City and Coast Guard 
Headquarters.
This service will include several round trips a day. Limited transportation 
of single daily roundtrips will also be available from Patuxent River and 
NSWC Indian Head in Maryland, and Dahlgren and Quantico in Virginia. 
Mechanicsburg, Pennsylvania will have one roundtrip on one day of the event. 
More information and bus schedules are available at seairspace.org/.

6. Questions regarding SAS 2023 should be directed to the NLUS at (703)312-
1577, email Julia Simpson at jsimpson(at)navyleague.org, or visit 
seaairspace.org/.

7. Released by VADM Scott D. Conn, Deputy Chief of Naval Operations for 
Warfighting Requirements and Capabilities (N9).//

BT
#0001
NNNN

CLASSIFICATION: UNCLASSIFIED//

