UNCLASSIFIED//

ROUTINE

R 031546Z APR 20 MID110000550427U

FM CNO WASHINGTON DC

TO NAVADMIN

INFO SECNAV WASHINGTON DC
CNO WASHINGTON DC

BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 098/20

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N4/APR//

SUBJ/PROCEDURES FOR NAVY ENTITIES TO CONTRIBUTE ADDITIVELY MANUFACTURED PARTS 
OR SERVICES IN RESPONSE TO COVID-19//

REF/A/PUBLIC LAW/CONGRESS/23NOV1988//

REF/B/REG/OSD/NOV2017//

REF/C/MEMO/ASN RDA/31MAR2020//

NARR/REF A IS 42 U.S. CODE 5121, STAFFORD ACT.  REF B IS DOD FINANCIAL 
MANAGEMENT REGULATION, VOL. 2 B (CHAPTER 9).  REF C IS A MEMORANDUM FROM ASN 
RDA GUIDANCE FOR PROVIDING SUPPORT DURING THE NATIONAL EMERGENCY.//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN provides guidance for Navy organizations wishing to 
contribute to COVID-19 response/relief efforts using Additive Manufacturing 
(AM).  The steps outlined below are designed to ensure the Navy remains 
aligned with Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) initiatives being 
coordinated with the Department of Defense via the recently created Joint 
Acquisition Task Force (JATF).  The intent is not to stifle grass-roots 
efforts at the local level, but rather to ensure Navy capabilities are used 
to address the most pressing needs and are in keeping with the provisions set 
forth in references
(a) through (c).

2.  Units wishing to respond to a local need should follow the steps below:
    a.  First contact your SYSCOM POC (contact info included below) to verify 
there is no higher priority tasking.  If the request to manufacture did not 
come through FEMA channels, SYSCOM leads will compile requests and forward to 
JATF for review and presentation to FEMA for approval.
    b.  If there are no higher priority SYSCOM tasks and the request came via 
FEMA channels or was granted FEMA authorization via the process described 
above, units may support the request provided:
        (1) The unit follows proper acquisition authorities per references 
(a) and (b).  Per reference (a), only FEMA requirements are authorized for 
reimbursement.
        (2) The Technical Data Package for the component has been approved by 
the FDA or relevant approval authority, when required.
        (3) Units provide a report to navy_am_covid19@navy.mil (SYSCOM POCs 
are able to provide reports template), so that Navy leadership can stay 
abreast of current efforts.

3.  Units who have not received a direct request but who wish to offer 
assistance may lend support by following the steps below:
    a.  Contact your SYSCOM POC to verify they have a current inventory of 
your manufacturing capability and to inquire about FEMA/JATF/DON priority 
tasking.  If no such tasking exists units may proceed to step b.
    b.  Visit the America Makes COVID-19 website, https://www.americamakes.us 
/statement-on-covid-19/, and click on the manufacturers icon to submit 
details regarding your manufacturing capability. America Makes, has been 
funded to liaise between the DOD, the Food and Drug Administration (FDA), the 
Department of Veterans Affairs (VA), the National Institute of Health (NIH), 
and the broader AM industrial community and will act as a match-maker between 
those with needs and those with resources.
    c.  If units are matched with a request and they provide parts or 
services they shall provide a report to navy_am_covid19@navy.mil.

4.  To check for components that have already been granted FDA approval or to 
submit designs for FDA approval, visit the America Makes website https 
://www.americamakes.us/statement-on-covid-19/.  The site will then direct 
users to the NIH repository.  Approved Navy parts can also be found at https 
://www.jtdi.mil/group/AM_AMCOVID19. Access to JTDI is limited to those with 
an account and Common Access Card (CAC).

5.  At any time the Navy may direct all capability to support emerging 
FEMA/JATF requirements which are deemed a national priority.  In such cases 
units should be prepared to pivot from previous tasking.

6.  For Navy organizations OCONUS, medical components, to include PPE, shall 
be cleared through the relevant host nation authorities for approval prior to 
distribution. FDA approval does not imply international approval.

7.  Any Navy organization receiving solicitation from private industry shall 
direct such requests to the following FEMA link.
https://www.fema.gov/coronavirus/how-to-help

8.  For questions, please contact your SYSCOM POC:
    a.  NAVSEA     Ben Bouffard, benjamin.bouffard@navy.mil
    b.  NAVAIR     Liz McMichael, elizabeth.mcmichael@navy.mil;
                   Alan Pentz, alan.pentz@navy.mil
    c.  NAVWAR     Jess Fuller, jessica.l.fuller@navy.mil
    d.  NAVFAC     Todd Jonas, todd.jonas@navy.mil
    e.  NAVSUP     John Ballou, john.ballou1@navy.mil
    f.  OPNAV N4   CAPT Xavier Lugo, manuel.x.lugo@navy.mil;
                   CDR Patrick Veith, patrick.veith@navy.mil

9.  Released by Vice Admiral Ricky L. Williamson, N4.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//

