CLASSIFICATION: UNCLASSIFIED// 
ROUTINE 
R 051359Z DEC 22 MID200080555496U 
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC 
TO NAVADMIN 
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC 
BT 
UNCLAS 
 
NAVADMIN 272/22 
 
PASS TO OFFICE CODES: 
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1// 
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1// 
 
MSGID/NAVADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/DEC// 
 
SUBJ/NOTICE OF CONVENING FY-24 ACTIVE-DUTY NAVY OFFICER CONTINUATION 
SELECTION BOARDS AND ANNOUNCEMENT OF CONTINUATION POLICY// 
 
REF/A/10 U.S.C., SECTION 632 
REF/B/10 U.S.C., SECTION 8323 
 
NARR/REF A IS UNITED STATES CODE, TITLE 10, SECTION 632, REF B IS 
UNITED STATES CODE, TITLE 10, SECTION 8323. 
 
RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN announces the fiscal year (FY) 2024 Active- 
Duty Navy Officer Continuation Selection Boards.  The FY-24 Active- 
Duty Navy Officer Continuation Selection Boards will convene, when 
required, immediately following the corresponding FY-24 Active-Duty 
Navy Officer and Chief Warrant Officer Promotion Selection Boards. 
Eligible officers on the Active-Duty List (ADL) who are fully 
qualified to remain on active duty and meet the requirements in 
paragraphs 2 through 6 will be considered for continuation. 
 
2.  Captains (CAPT) in the engineering duty officer (EDO) and 
unrestricted line (URL) officer competitive categories who have a 
specific designation as acquisition workforce (AW) members will be 
considered for continuation.  Eligible officers on the ADL who are 
not on a rear admiral (lower half) promotion list and who meet the 
requirements in subparagraph 2a will be considered for expanded 
continuation. 
    a.  CAPT EDO and URL officers who are AW members with 28 or more 
years of active commissioned service on the convening date of the 
board and hold one or more of the following additional qualification 
designation (AQD) codes: 
        (1) AA3 or AA4 Program Management 
        (2) AG3 Production, Quality, and Manufacturing 
        (3) AS3 Engineering 
    b.  Officers selected by these boards will be continued to 33 
years of active commissioned service, subject to the statutory 
maximum age requirement of 62 years.  These expanded continuation 
boards are part of the Navy's "Up and Stay" initiative. 
 
3.  Lieutenant commander (LCDR) URL, restricted line (RL) and staff 
corps (limited duty officers (LDO) continuation policy is 
promulgated in paragraph 5): 
    a.  Twice failure of selection (2XFOS) LCDRs with 14 to 18 years 
of active service (YOAS) on the date of mandatory discharge. 
Officers selected for continuation will be continued until eligible 
for retirement at the completion of 20 YOAS. 
    b.  2xFOS LCDRs with less than 14 YOAS on the date of mandatory 
discharge.  Officers selected for continuation will be continued for 
a period of 3 years. 
    c.  2xFOS LCDRs with 18 or more YOAS, in line with reference 
(a), will not be considered for continuation, but will be retained 
on active-duty until retirement eligible at 20 YOAS. 
    d.  2xFOS URL 1310 aviators with primary additional 
qualification designations (AQD) of professional flight instructor 
(DIP) or DA5/DA7/DB2/DB5/DB6/DD1/DL3/DS2 (TACAIR), Chaplain Corps 
(CHC), Dental Corps (DC), Information Professional (IP), Judge 
Advocate General's Corps (JAGC), Maritime Space Officer (MSO), 
Medical Corps (MC), Medical Service Corps (MSC), Nurse Corps (NC) 
(with primary subspecialties of Certified Registered Nurse 
Anesthetist (CRNA) (1972 subspecialty), Critical Care Nursing (1960 
subspecialty), Labor and Delivery (1920 subspecialty), and Mental 
Health Nurse Practitioner (MHNP) (1973 subspecialty)) and Supply 
Corps (SC) LCDRs will be considered for continuation who would 
statutorily retire in FY-24 with 20 YOAS.  URL 1310 aviators with 
primary AQDs of DIP or DA5/DA7/DB2/DB5/DB6/DD1/DL3/DS2 (TACAIR) and 
JAGC officers selected for continuation will be continued for a 
period of 3 years to 23 YOAS.  CHC, DC, IP, MC, MSC, NC (with 
primary subspecialties of CRNA 1972, Critical Care 1960, Labor and 
Delivery 1920, and MHNP 1973) MSO, and SC officers selected for 
continuation will be continued until the last day of the month in 
which the officer completes 24 YOAS. 
    e.  In no case will any LCDR be continued or retained beyond the 
last day of the month in which the officer becomes 62 years of age. 
 
4.  Lieutenant (LT)  aerospace engineering duty officer (AEDO), CHC, 
Cyber Warfare Engineer (CWE), Cryptologic Warfare (CW), DC, Foreign 
Area Officer (FAO), Intelligence Officer (INTEL), IP, JAGC, MC, MSC, 
MSO, NC, and SC will follow the below as applicable: 
    a.  2XFOS LTs covered in paragraph 4 with less than 18 YOAS and 
selected for continuation will be continued for a period of three 
years, but not beyond retirement eligibility at 20 YOAS. 
    b.  2XFOS LTs covered in paragraph 4 with 18 or more YOAS, in 
line with references (a) and (b), will not be considered for 
continuation, but will instead be retained on active-duty until 
retirement eligible at 20 YOAS. 
    c.  In no case will any 2xFOS LTs covered in paragraph 4 be 
continued or retained beyond the last day of the month in which the 
officer becomes eligible for retirement under reference (a) or the 
last day of the month in which the officer becomes 62 years of age, 
whichever is earlier. 
 
5.  Commander (CDR), LCDR, and LT LDOs: 
    a.  All LDOs selected for promotion in FY-24 who are subject to 
mandatory retirement for YOAS prior to their scheduled promotion 
dates and/or prior to completing the time-in-grade (TIG) necessary 
to retire in the next higher grade after promotion will be 
considered for continuation.  If selected, these officers will be 
continued for a period sufficient to allow them to accept promotion 
and, as required, attain sufficient TIG to retire at the higher 
grade. 
    b.  All LDOs who are on active duty at the time when the 
promotion board meets and are considered in zone for promotion and 
who are subject to mandatory retirement for YOAS prior to the end of 
FY-23 will be considered for continuation.  If selected, these 
officers will be continued for a period sufficient to allow them to 
accept promotion and, as required, attain sufficient TIG to retire 
at the higher grade or, if not selected for promotion, until the end 
of FY-23. 
 
6.  Chief Warrant Officers (CWO): 
    a.  All CWOs selected for promotion in FY-24 who are subject to 
mandatory retirement for YOAS prior to their scheduled promotion 
dates and/or prior to completing the TIG necessary to retire in the 
next higher grade after promotion will be considered for 
continuation.  If selected, these officers will be continued for a 
period sufficient to allow them to accept promotion and complete the 
minimum TIG for retirement to the next higher CWO grade. 
    b.  All CWOs who are on active duty at the time the promotion 
board meets and are considered in zone and who are subject to 
mandatory retirement for YOAS prior to the end of FY-23, will be 
considered for continuation.  If selected, these officers will be 
continued for a period sufficient to allow them to accept promotion 
and complete the minimum TIG for retirement to the next higher CWO 
grade.  All CWOs who are not selected for promotion to the next 
higher CWO grade will be continued on active duty, until the end of 
FY-23. 
 
7.  Officers on the ADL who meet any of the criteria in paragraphs 2 
through 6 must check BUPERS Online, via MyNavy Portal (MNP) at 
https://my.navy.mil/quick-links.html, after release of the 
respective promotion selection ALNAV message, to determine if they 
were selected for continuation.  Once logged into BUPERS Online, 
click on Advancements/Selection Boards and then on the appropriate 
officer (Promotion/Continuation) board to determine the results. 
 
8.  Promotion selection board convening dates are as follows: 
    a.  The FY-24 Active-Duty Navy O-6 Line Promotion Selection 
Board convenes 11 January 2023.  The FY-24 Active-Duty Navy O-5 LDO 
Line Continuation Selection board will follow this board. 
    b.  The FY-24 Active-Duty Navy O-6 Staff Promotion Selection 
Board convenes 7 February 2023.  The FY-24 Active-Duty Navy O-5 LDO 
Staff Continuation Selection Board will follow this board. 
    c.  The FY-24 Active-Duty Navy O-5 Line Promotion Selection 
Board convenes 14 February 2023.  The FY-24 Active-Duty Navy O-4 
Line and LDO Continuation Selection Board will follow this board. 
    d.  The FY-24 Active-Duty Navy O-5 Staff Promotion Selection 
Board convenes 1 May 2023.  The FY-24 Active-Duty Navy O-4 Staff and 
LDO Continuation Selection Board will follow this board. 
    e.  The FY-24 Active-Duty Navy O-4 Staff Promotion Selection 
Board convenes 1 May 2023.  The FY-24 Active-Duty Navy O-3 Staff and 
LDO Continuation Selection boards will follow this board. 
    f.  The FY-24 Active-Duty Navy O-4 Line Promotion Selection 
Board convenes 8 May 2023.  The FY-24 Active-Duty Navy O-3 Line and 
LDO Continuation Selection Boards will follow this board. 
    g.  The FY-24 Active-Duty Navy CWO3/CWO4/CWO5 Promotion 
Selection Boards convene 5 Jun 2023.  The FY-24 Active-Duty Navy 
CWO2/CWO3/CWO4 Continuation Selection Boards will follow these 
boards. 
    h.  The FY-25 Active O-7 Line and Staff Promotion Selection 
Board convenes 26 September 2023.  The FY-24 Active O-6 Expanded 
Continuation Selection Board will follow this board. 
 
9.  Correspondence addressed to the promotion selection board will 
not be forwarded to a subsequent continuation selection board for 
consideration.  Officers must communicate with each board 
separately. 
 
10.  Only eligible officers may communicate with a continuation 
selection board via the letter to the board (LTB) process.  NAVADMIN 
220/19 announced the introduction of a new application known as 
Electronic Submission of Selection Board Documents (ESSBD), 
accessible through MNP.  ESSBD improves the speed, transparency and 
confidence of receipt over current LTB submission methods, such as 
hard copy and e-mail submitted letters and related attachments. 
    a.  ESSBD is available for all promotion, advancement and 
selection boards. 
    b.  ESSBD provides board candidates with the capability to 
electronically submit LTBs in a standard, consistent format, with or 
without attachments and will allow the candidate to see (for content 
and clarity) exactly what will be delivered and presented to the 
board. 
    c.  To utilize ESSBD, candidates must access document services 
through MNP at https://www.mnp.navy.mil/group/my-record. 
On-screen instructions will direct the submitter thereafter. 
    d.  Submission and subsequent receipt acknowledgement for LTBs 
submitted via ESSBD or other means does not constitute confirmation 
of eligibility for the boards to which LTBs are submitted.  If 
required, a full visual user guide is available through MNP 
athttps://www.mnp.navy.mil/group/advancement-and-promotion. 
    e.  LTBs must be received by Navy Personnel Command no later 
than 2359 (central standard time) (CST) 10 days prior to the 
convening date of the respective board, as noted below.  Submitters 
are cautioned to not wait until the deadline date to submit LTBs via 
ESSBD or other available avenues. 
Continuation For        Convening Date       Due Date/Time 
URL/RL/LDO CDR          11 JAN 23            31 DEC 23/2359 CST 
Staff Corps/LDO CDR     7 FEB 23             27 JAN 23/2359 CST 
URL/RL/LDO LCDR         14 FEB 23            3 FEB 23/2359 CST 
Staff Corps/LDO LCDR    1 MAY 23             20 APR 23/2359 CST 
Staff Corps/LDO LT      1 MAY 23             20 APR 23/2359 CST 
URL/RL/LDO LT           8 MAY 23             27 APR 23/2359 CST 
CWO 4/3/2               5 JUN 23             25 MAY 23/2359 CST 
URL/RL CAPT        26 SEP 23            16 SEP 23/2359 CST 
    f.  If unable to use ESSBD, the CSCSELBOARD(at)navy.mil mailbox 
account is capable of receiving encrypted correspondence in 
accordance with Department of Defense policy.  If sending a board 
package from a non-NMCI network (bumed.mil, eu.navy.mil, etc.), 
please review procedures listed in NAVADMIN 220/19. 
    g.  The written communication may call attention to the board, 
any matter concerning the record of the officer that the officer 
considers important.  Written communication may include, as 
enclosures, correspondence from any individual concerning the 
eligible officer.  Correspondence not originated by the eligible 
officer, including endorsement to the letter of the eligible officer 
and letters written on behalf of that officer, must contain a 
written acknowledgement by the eligible officer that he or she 
desires such correspondence be presented to the board. 
Correspondence without such an acknowledgement is considered third 
party correspondence and will be rejected without being presented to 
the board.  Classified correspondence will not be accepted. 
 
11.  All officers are reminded of their responsibility to ensure the 
completeness and accuracy of their official records prior to the 
convening date of the board. 
 
12.  Questions regarding LTB submission and continuation should be 
directed to MyNavy Career Center by calling 1-833-330-MNCC (1-833- 
330-6622/DSN: 882-6622) or e-mailing ASKMNCC(at)navy.mil. 
 
13.  Additional information concerning continuation is also 
available via MNP at https://www.mnp.navy.mil/group/advancement-and-  
promotion/p-officer-promotion-resources-and-links, then click on the 
Websites side (vice Systems side) of the blue header.  Once on the 
Websites side, you will see the NPC Promotion Boards link.  Click on 
the NPC Promotion Boards link, then click on the Officer 
Continuation/SERB link on the left hand side. 
 
14.  This NAVADMIN will remain in effect until superseded or 30 
September 2024, whichever occurs first. 
 
15.  Released by Vice Admiral Richard J. Cheeseman Jr., N1.// 
 
BT 
#0001 
NNNN 
CLASSIFICATION: UNCLASSIFIED//
