UNCLASSIFIED//

ROUTINE

R 101828Z APR 20 MID110000571500U

FM CNO WASHINGTON DC

TO NAVADMIN

INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC

BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 106/20

PASS TO OFFICE CODES:
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N2N6//
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N2N6//

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N2N6/APR//

SUBJ/UPDATED CYBER INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY AND CYBERSECURITY WORKFORCE 
TRANSITION IMPLEMENTATION PLAN//

REF/A/NAVADMIN 003/19/08JAN19//

REF/B/LTR/OPM/1AUG16/FCWAA//

REF/C/DOC/NIST SPECIAL PUB 800-181/AUG17//

REF/D/DOC/DCWF//

REF/E/DOC/DoDD 8140.01/11AUG15//

REF/F/DOC/DoDM 8570.01/19DEC05//

REF/G/DOC/SECNAVINST 5239.20A/10FEB16//

REF/H/DOC/SECNAV M-5239.2/JUN16//

REF/I/LTR/DOD CIO/2JUL18//

REF/J/LTR/OPNAV N2N6/29SEP17//

NARR/ REF (A) IS THE Q2FY19 NAVADMIN INTIATING THE NAVY TRANSITION TO THE 
SECRETARY OF THE NAVY (SECNAV) QUALIFICIATON PROGRAM.  REF(B) IS AN OFFICE OF 
PERSONNEL MANAGEMENT LETTER OUTLINING AND PROVIDING IMPLEMENTATION GUIDANCE 
FOR THE FEDERAL CYBERSECURITY WORKFORCE ASSESSMENT ACT OF 2015; REF (C) IS 
THE NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF STANDARDS AND TECHNOLOGY SPECIAL PUBLICATION 800-
181 NATIONAL INITIATIVE FOR CYBERSECURITY EDUCATION CYBERSECURITY WORKFORCE 
FRAMEWORK AND OUTLINES 54 CYBER WORK ROLES, THEIR ASSOCIATED TASKS AND 
REQUIRED KNOWLEDGE, SKILLS, AND ABILITIES; REF (D) IS THE DEPARTMENT OF 
DEFENSE (DOD) CYBER WORKFORCE FRAMEWORK AND BUILDS ON THE NATIONAL INSTITUTE 
OF STANDARDS AND TECHNOLOGY SP 800-181 AND ADDRESSES UNIQUE DOD MISSIONS AND 
TASKS, DIRECTING THAT THESE CODES BE APPLIED TO MEMBERS OF THE DEFENSE 
CYBERSECURITY WORKFORCE; REF (E) IS THE DoDD 8140.01 CYBERSPACE WORKFORCE 
MANAGEMENT, DATED 11 AUGUST 2015, AND SUPERSEDES REF (F) AND BEGINS THE 
TRANSITION PROCESS FROM THE INFORMATION ASSURANCE WORKFORCE TOWARD A MUCH 
BROADER CYBER WORKFORCE POPULATION; REF (F) IS THE DOD 8570.01M, 
CYBERSECURITY WORKFORCE IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM, DATED 19 DECEMBER 2005; REF (G) 
IS THE SECNAVINST 5239.20A, DEPARTMENT OF THE NAVY (DON) CYBERSPACE 
INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY AND CYBERSECURITY WORKFORCE MANAGEMENT AND 
QUALIFICATION, DATED 10 FEBRUARY 2016; REF (H) IS THE SECNAV M -5239.2, DON 
CYBERSPACE INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY AND CYBERSECURITY WORKFORCE MANAGEMENT AND 
QUALIFICATION MANUAL, DATED 27 JUNE 2016; REF (G) AND (H) PROVIDES 
IMPLEMENTATION AND QUALIFICATION GUIDANCE FOR THE DON CYBER INFORMATION 
TECHNOLOGY/CYBERSECURITY WORKFORCE; REF (I) IS THE 2 JULY 2018 DOD CHIEF 
INFORMATION OFFICER (CIO) WAIVER FROM THE REQUIREMENTS OF THE DOD 8570.01M 
GRANTING THE NAVY PERMISSION TO IMPLEMENT THE SECNAV M-5239.2; REF (J) IS AN 
OPNAV LETTER ON NAVY CREDENTIALING OPPORTUNITIES ON-LINE GUIDANCE FOR 
APPROVING NAVY CYBERSECURITY WORKFORCE VOUCHERS.// POC/VIEIRA/CIV/OPNAV 
N2N6G11/TEL:  703-695-7809/DSN:  225-7809
/EMAIL:  MICHAEL.VIEIRA(AT)NAVY.MIL//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN updates reference (a) to amend timelines for 
transitioning to a new Cyber Workforce (CWF) framework due to delays in key 
elements of Phase I (paragraphs 3.b., 3.e., and 3.i.) and to delay the 
commencement of Phase II.  Phase II implementation will be announced via a 
future NAVADMIN.

2.  The Navy implementation process for transitioning to a new CWF management 
and qualification framework (references (b) through (g) germane) is outlined 
in reference (h).  This transition does not include the cyber effects and 
intelligence (cyber) workforce elements.  The contractor workforce remains 
governed by reference (f).  Organizations are encouraged to adopt a measured 
approach if proceeding ahead of the Department of the Navy (DON) enterprise, 
understanding alignment with updated Department of Defense (DoD) policy may 
result in additional cost.

3.  The Navy will transition from reference (f) to reference (g) in three 
phases.  Below is the status of Phase I:
    a.  OPNAV N2N6 develop and implement a formal process communicating 
implementation details, status, and required changes, including regularly 
scheduled in-progress reviews on transition progress - Complete.
    b.  Outline procedures for assessing employee proficiency levels  
Partially complete.
        (1) Draft language developed; estimate updated SECNAV policy in 
Q4FY20.
    c.  Establish an OPNAV N2N6G1 and the Office of Civilian Human Resources
(OCHR) transition working group addressing Human Resource issues, including 
union notifications for both the National Capital Region and local bargaining 
units  Partially complete.
        (1) Established Human Resources (HR) working group.
        (2) Developed draft union notification letters; awaiting finalized 
qualification requirements.
        (3) Organizations with questions pertaining to employee qualification 
non-compliance and applicable adverse actions are advised to consult with 
local HR.
    d.  Update and publish an integrated Cybersecurity (CS) Workforce (CSWF) 
Management Oversight Compliance Committee/Training, Education, and 
Certification Advisory Team Charter - Complete.
    e.  Evaluate and validate qualification requirements including 
foundational, residential, and continuing education.  This includes 
clarifying experience and using personnel qualification standards for 
civilian employees  In progress.
        (1) Navy foundational qualification requirements need to be updated 
based on recent DoD qualification reviews to ensure Navy is not increasing 
the qualification gap with the future DoD workforce qualification program.  
DoD estimates approving qualifications matrices in FY21.  Phase II initiation 
requires updated qualification requirements for Cyber Information Technology
(IT) and CS work.
        (2) Organizations are encouraged to communicate to the CWF the 
importance of employees maintaining currently held industry certifications 
while the Cyber IT and CS transitions are in progress.
        (3) Navy experience pilot is complete; awaiting DoD review and 
approval of experience as a foundational qualification option.
        (4) Recommending changing the current 40 hours of Cyber IT/CSWF 
continuing education units; estimate updated Secretary of the Navy (SECNAV) 
policy in Q4FY20.
    f.  Monitor manpower offices completion and reconciliation of military 
billet coding in the Total Force Manpower Management System (TFMMS) - 
Complete.
    g.  Monitor OCHR completion of civilian billet coding in the Defense 
Civilian Personnel Data System (DCPDS) and reconcile in TFMMS  Complete.
        (1) Per reference (k), Navy command submissions to Manpower and 
Reserve Affairs (MRA) Total Force Integration (TFI) received by March 2019 
were reviewed and, once approved, forwarded to OCHR for update within the 
DCPDS.  In collaboration, OCHR and Department of Defense Human Resource 
Activity (DODHRA) Defense Manpower Data Center (DMDC) completed the 
processing of all requested updates as of 17 May 2019.
    h.  Staff updates and drafts SECNAV and OPNAV Cyber IT/CSWF policy, as 
needed, to support workforce management  In progress.
        (1) Updates to SECNAV CWF policy have been developed and submitted 
for review and approval.  Estimate updated policy in Q4FY20.  Interim changes 
affecting position descriptions, proficiencies levels, and continuing 
education requirements will be released prior to a full SECNAV policy update.
    i.  Identifying funding, validating functionality, and reviewing business 
rules for the Total Workforce Management Service (TWMS) CSWF module  In 
progress.
        (1) TWMS CSWF module is not funded in FY20.
        (2) While awaiting funding, efforts continue to identify module 
requirements and refine business rules based on evolving DoD requirements.  
Organizations shall not interpret scores as steady state of readiness until 
all changes are finalized.
    j.  Reference (j) remains in effect throughout the transition period and 
will be re-evaluated during program sustainment - Complete.

5.  Progress will be communicated via policy guidance, executive briefs, 
NAVADMINs, Semi-annual Cybersecurity Symposium briefs, and monthly action 
officer level CWF synchronizations.

6.  Program Managers must continue to monitor the CWF and provide Command 
CSWF updates to the command manpower or personnel subject matter experts for 
inclusion into authoritative data sources.

7.  Released by VADM Matthew J. Kohler, Deputy Chief of Naval Operations for 
Information Warfare, OPNAV N2N6.//

BT
#0001
NNNN


