UNCLASSIFIED//

ROUTINE

R 171421Z AUG 21 MID600050895145U

FM CNO WASHINGTON DC

TO NAVADMIN

INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC

BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 178/21

PASS TO OFFICE CODES:
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1/N7//

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/AUG//

SUBJ/NAVY PERSONNEL AND PAY (NP2) SYSTEM DELIVERY PLAN PHASE 1 (DESIGNATION 
OF FUNCTIONAL ACCOUNT MANAGER (FAM))//

RMKS/1.  Command engagement is critical to the successful deployment of the 
new Navy Personnel and Pay (NP2) system.  This NAVADMIN announces Phase 1 of 
2 of the NP2 system delivery plan, requiring command designation of their 
Functional Account Manager (FAM) and the initial account creation for the 
FAM.  The FAM is responsible for final approval of all user role requests in 
NP2, with the exception of self-service user roles; this role in the Navy 
Standard Integrated Personnel System (NSIPS) is referred to as the NSIPS 
Access Manager (NAM).  In line with phase 1, FAM designation and account 
approval will be complete by all commands not later than 1 October 2021.
    a.  Each unit identification code (UIC), to include Reserve commissioned 
units, must have a designated FAM.  A designated FAM can, and often will, 
support more than one UIC.  The FAM will ultimately act as the final approval 
authority for the remainder of the command initial user roles and should be 
an individual E5 or above or GS-5 or above.  Ideally, the initial designated 
FAM will have at least 9 months remaining at the command.  If that is not 
possible, due to the enduring nature of the FAM requirement, when a FAM 
leaves a command, a relief must be designated; this role cannot be vacant.
    b.  To assist all commands, an NP2 Command Startup Guide has been 
developed with step-by-step guidance and user role checklists.
Appendix A of the Command Startup Guide includes a sample FAM designation 
letter and the System Authorization Access Request Navy
(SAAR-N) routing process.  The Command Startup guide can be found on the NP2 
Resources page of MyNavy Portal at https://my.navy.mil/np2.html.
    c.  The establishment of the FAM user role will be conducted via the 
manual SAAR-N PDF method, which consists of the user completing a traditional 
SAAR-N PDF and routing it through the required offices at their command in 
accordance with the Command Startup Guide.  A template of the SAAR-N PDF can 
be found in the NP2 Command Startup Guide.  The request for FAM access 
requires the member to upload the approved SAAR-N PDF form with proof of 
completion of the current Cyber Awareness Challenge training and the member 
designation letter into the NP2 SAAR-N Request at https://np2.navy.mil to 
complete the application for the FAM user role.  While the NP2 Command 
Startup Guide covers the processes listed above in detail, additional 
assistance, if required, will be provided through the MyNavy Career Center 
(833) 330-MNCC or askmncc(at)navy.mil.

2.  NP2 System Delivery Plan Phase 2 is anticipated to be announced by 
NAVADMIN no later than October 2021.  Phase 2 will guide commands through the 
steps to complete the NP2 command setup and organizational hierarchy and 
workflow processes.  When NP2 goes live, all Sailors will have NP2 self-
service accounts automatically pre-populated in their current UIC.  However, 
anyone required to approve a personnel or pay action must have a higher level 
user role that will be covered in Phase 2.

3.  MyNavy HR continues to transform the Human Resources delivery model.  NP2 
will provide personnel and payroll operations for all Sailors, active and 
reserve components and Midshipmen, and allow the Navy to transition from the 
Defense Joint Military Pay System (DJMS) to Treasury Direct Disbursing and 
provide for internal audit controls and financial management.  Regularly 
scheduled enhancements will be made to NP2 over the next few years, as we 
continue to modernize and increase the system functionality for the Fleet.

4.  A transition of this magnitude is certainly daunting.  To accomplish it, 
we will rely on the cooperation of our partners and customers across the 
Fleet.  That cooperation is paramount to our successful transition to a new 
modern service delivery which is key to the future readiness of the Navy.

5.  This NAVADMIN will remain in effect until superseded or canceled, 
whichever occurs first.

6.  Released by Vice Admiral John B. Nowell, Jr, N1.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//

