ROUTINE 
R 311534Z AUG 22 MID200080170160U 
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC 
TO NAVADMIN 
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC 
BT 
UNCLAS 
 
NAVADMIN 198/22 
 
PASS TO OFFICE CODES: 
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1// 
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1// 
MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/AUG// 
 
SUBJ/FALL FISCAL YEAR 2023 TRAINING AND ADMINISTRATION OF THE RESERVE OFFICER 
TRANSFER AND REDESIGNATION BOARD// 
 
REF/A/DOC/COMNAVPERSCOM/04MAY19// 
REF/B/DOC/COMNAVPERSCOM/21JUN07// 
REF/C/DOC/COMNAVPERSCOM/11SEP16// 
 
RMKS/REF A IS MILPERSMAN ARTICLE 1001-020, FULL-TIME SUPPORT (FTS) 
OF THE NAVY RESERVE OFFICER PROGRAM.  REF B IS MILPERSMAN ARTICLE 
1301-213, OFFICER SPECIAL ASSIGNMENTS - RESERVE FLEET LOGISTICS 
SUPPORT SQUADRON (VR).  REF C IS MILPERSMAN ARTICLE 1321-100, ORDERS 
FOR OFFICER SPECIAL PROGRAMS.// 
 
RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN announces the convening of the fall Fiscal 
Year 2023 Training and Administration of the Reserve (TAR) Officer 
Transfer and Redesignation Board on 14 November 2022.  Applications 
from qualified Active Component (AC) and Selected Reserve (SELRES) 
officers will be considered by this board.  In line with reference 
(a), this board will also accept applications from TAR officers 
requesting redesignation into another TAR officer community. 
 
2.  Applicants can find requirements and procedures via the MyNavy 
HR Portal at https://mynavyhr.navy.afpims.mil/Career-Management/Community-
Management/Officer/Reserve-OCM/Full-Time-Support/FTS-Redesignation/.   
Complete applications with associated enclosures must be received no later 
than 2359 (CT) on 28 September 2022. 
 
3.  Eligibility: 
    a.  All applicants must meet eligibility requirements outlined 
in reference (a), the fall FY-23 TAR eligibility criteria document, 
and the following: 
        (1) Projected rotation date (PRD).  Applicants should have a 
PRD no later than 31 May 2024.  Waiver requests will need to be 
endorsed by your commanding officer on the command endorsement. 
        (2) Minimum service requirement (MSR).  AC applicants should 
have completed their MSR prior to 31 May 2024.  Waiver requests (no 
additional documentation required by the applicant) will be 
considered on a case-by-case basis by your AC officer community 
manager (OCM). 
        (3) Year group.  All AC applicants are subject to AC OCM 
manning needs.  All applicants are subject to TAR OCM manning needs. 
No action is required by the applicants. 
        (4) Aviation bonus (AvB).  Aviation officers with obligated 
service as a result of AvB are eligible to apply if the officer will 
be within 12 months of completing AvB obligation or department head 
tour at the time the board convenes.  Redesignation immediately 
following a department head tour may result in cancellation of AvB, 
which will be adjudicated by Aviation Officer Assignments (PERS-43). 
        (5) Failure of selection (FOS).  AC officers in a 2xFOS 
status for promotion to lieutenant commander are eligible to apply 
for TAR regardless of MSR and AvB contract term; a waiver request is 
not required.  Reserve component (RC) officers in a 1xFOS status are 
considered on a case-by-case basis.  RC officers with two or more 
FOS are not eligible. 
    b.  All AC applications will be routed by the TAR OCM through 
the applicable AC OCM for community release prior to applications 
being sent to the board.  Applicants not released by the AC OCM will 
not be eligible for the board.  AC officers with a resignation 
submitted in Navy Standard Integrated Personnel System and in 
routing at PERS or Lieutenants (O3) in a 2xFOS status are eligible 
to apply and do not require AC OCM release. 
    c.  Limited duty officers who possess a 4-year baccalaureate 
degree are eligible for the TAR program.  Chief warrant officers are 
not eligible to apply. 
 
4.  Officers applying for multiple aviation platforms will be 
selected based on qualifications and Navy mission requirements. 
 
5.  AC officers will incur a minimum 2-year TAR obligation if 
selected.  In line with references (b) and (c), aviators selected 
for the Fleet logistics community will incur a 3-year TAR 
obligation.  All SELRES officers will incur a 3-year TAR obligation 
regardless of community.  All TAR obligations will begin on the date 
a service member redesignates as a TAR officer, unless otherwise 
stated in reference (c). 
 
6.  Upon approval of the board proceedings, the results of the board 
will be posted on the TAR redesignation board website.  Applicants 
can expect to see the results posted within 30 days of board 
adjournment.  Within 2 weeks of the board results being posted, 
selectees will receive an acceptance package and will have 10 days 
upon receipt to accept or decline TAR transfer/redesignation. 
 
7.  Points of contact: 
    a.  LCDR Sidney E. Larson, Director of Affiliation and 
Redesignation (PERS-92), (901) 874-4512/DSN 882 or 
sidney.e.larson.mil(at)us.navy.mil. 
    b.  PS1 Paula Ross (PERS-92), (901) 874-4599/DSN 882 or 
paula.n.ross2.mil(at)us.navy.mil. 
 
8.  This NAVADMIN will remain in effect until superseded or 
canceled, whichever occurs first. 
 
9.  Released by Rear Admiral J. P. Waters, Acting N1B.// 
 
BT 
#0001 
NNNN 
UNCLASSIFIED//
