CLASSIFICATION: UNCLASSIFIED// 
ROUTINE 
R 081808Z AUG 24 MID120001331882U 
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC 
TO NAVADMIN 
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC 
BT 
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 158/24

MSGID/NAVADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N093/AUG//

SUBJ/2024-2025 NAVY INFLUENZA VACCINATION AND REPORTING POLICY//

REF/A/DOC/BUMEDINST 6230.15B/07OCT2013// 
REF/B/DOC/DHA-PI 6025.52/04JUN2024// 
REF/C/DOC/DODI 6205.02/23JUL2019// 
REF/D/DOC/DODI 6025.19/13JUL2022// 
REF/E/DOC/BUPERSINST 1730.11A/16MAR2020// 
REF/F/DOC/MILPERSMAN 1730-020/15AUG2020// 
REF/G/DOC/OFR/32 CFR PART 199.21/11DEC2018//

NARR/REF A IS THE BUREAU OF MEDICINE AND SURGERY INSTRUCTION (BUMEDINST) 
6230.15B IMMUNIZATIONS AND CHEMOPROPHYLAXIS FOR THE PREVENTION OF INFECTIOUS 
DISEASES.
REF B IS THE DEFENSE HEALTH AGENCY PROCEDURAL INSTRUCTION (DHA-PI) 6025.52 
GUIDANCE FOR THE DOD INFLUENZA VACCINATION PROGRAM (IVP).
REF C IS THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE INSTRUCTION (DODI) 6205.02 DOD 
IMMUNIZATION PROGRAM, ADDRESSING RESPONSIBILITIES AND PROCEDURES FOR 
ESTABLISHING A UNIFORM DOD IMMUNIZATION PROGRAM.
REF D IS DODI 6025.19 INDIVIDUAL MEDICAL READINESS PROGRAM, ADDRESSING 
RESPONSIBILITIES AND PROCEDURES FOR MONITORING AND MAINTAINING INDIVIDUAL 
MEDICAL READINESS.
REF E IS THE BUREAU OF NAVAL PERSONNEL INSTRUCTION (BUPERSINST) 1730.11A 
STANDARDS AND PROCEDURES GOVERNING THE ACCOMMODATION OF RELIGIOUS PRACTICES.
REF F IS THE NAVAL MILITARY PERSONNEL MANUAL (MILPERSMAN) 1730-020 
IMMUNIZATION EXEMPTIONS FOR RELIGIOUS BELIEFS.
REF G IS THE OFFICE OF THE FEDERAL REGISTER TITLE 32 OF THE CODE OF FEDERAL 
REGULATIONS PART 199.21 (32 CFR PART 199.21), CIVILIAN HEALTH AND MEDICAL 
PROGRAM OF THE UNIFORMED SERVICES (CHAMPUS) TRICARE PHARMACY BENEFITS 
PROGRAM.// 

POC/LCDR HELEN BARNHART/BUMED FALLS CHURCH VA/(703) 681-9474/EMAIL: 
HELEN.M.BARNHART.MIL(AT)HEALTH.MIL//

RMKS/1.  Per references (a) through (g), this message outlines the 2024-2025 
Navy influenza vaccination and reporting policy.  Influenza is a contagious 
acute febrile respiratory viral infection, which can cause mild to severe 
illness, possibly resulting in hospitalization or death.  Influenza has the 
potential for widespread transmission through person-to-person contact and 
can cause epidemics within military populations, especially under conditions 
of crowding such as initial entry training or aboard ships, per reference 
(a).  Influenza has the potential to adversely impact Total Force readiness 
and mission execution.

2.  Influenza Vaccination and Reporting.
    a.  Influenza Disease Prevention.  Vaccination is the most effective 
measure to reduce risk of influenza by enhancing force immunity.  Maintaining 
a clean work environment, optimizing good hygiene practices such as 
cough/sneeze and hand hygiene, mask wearing immediately after symptom onset, 
and managing workforce exposure (e.g., social distancing, teleworking, and 
taking appropriate sick leave) are additional methods to further reduce the 
spread of influenza that should be implemented as mission allows.  Detailed 
respiratory disease prevention and control recommendations may be found on 
the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) Influenza (Flu) website 
at: https://www.cdc.gov/flu/index.htm.
    b.  Influenza Vaccine.
        (1) Influenza vaccinations are offered in accordance with        
recommendations from the CDC and its Advisory Committee on Immunization        
Practices (ACIP), per references (b) and (c).  ACIP recommendations for the        
prevention and control of seasonal influenza with vaccines may be found at:        
https://www.cdc.gov/vaccines/hcp/acip-recs/vacc-specific/flu.html.
        (2) Two influenza vaccines, Northern Hemisphere (NH) and Southern        
Hemisphere (SH), are available based on service member location and timing        
requirements as described in reference (b).  The 2024-2025 influenza season        
vaccine supply will consist of trivalent injectable vaccines.  Intranasal        
vaccine will not be provided through the central ordering process but will be        
available through direct consultation with the Defense Logistics Agency if        
necessary.
    c.  Influenza Vaccine Priority.  U.S. Navy ships, operational assets, and 
training commands have been identified by the DoD and Department of the 
Navy(DoN) as vaccine priority groups for the 2024-2025 influenza season.
    d.  Influenza Vaccine Ordering and Distribution.
        (1) Operational Forces Support Division (OFSD), Naval Medical 
Readiness Logistics Command Detachment (NMRLC-Det), Fort Detrick is 
responsible for ordering and distributing influenza vaccine for all Navy and 
Marine Corps activities per reference (b).  Additional quantities required 
must be coordinated with the Vaccine Information and Logistics System (VIALS) 
helpdesk at: usn.detrick.nmrlc-detftdmd.list.vialhelp(at)health.mil.
        (2) VIALS is the online requisition system for seasonal influenza 
vaccine.  VIALS tracks requisitioned vaccine electronically via Military 
Standard Requisitioning and Issuing Procedure (MILSTRIP) from requisition to 
receipt.  The VIALS website is common access card enabled and can be found at  
https://gov-only.nmrlc.health.mil/int_code03/vials/.
        (3) All Defense Health Agency (DHA) Military Treatment Facilities
(MTFs) will submit the influenza requirements for their MTFs and the Branch 
Health Clinics that they support into the U.S. Army Medical Materiel Agency 
ordering portal, per reference (b).
        (4) All Fleet, United States Marine Corps Reserve units, and Navy 
Reserve commands will continue to submit their requirements in VIALS, per 
reference (b).
    e.  2025-2026 Influenza Vaccine Requirements.  The United States Army    
Medical Materiel Agency Distribution Operations Center conducts a data call 
for the following year's seasonal influenza virus vaccine requirements 
annually in September.  All requirements must be submitted prior to the 
suspense date, established in the annual Medical Material Quality Control 
Message (MMQC).  The suspense date for submitting 2025-2026 influenza virus 
vaccine requirements is 27 September 2024.
    f.  Influenza Vaccine Shipping.  All commands will verify their correct 
shipping address and two (2) points of contact information in VIALS to ensure 
prompt delivery.  Navy Fleet afloat will validate their shipping locations, 
timeframes, and contact information.
    g.  Influenza Vaccine Integrity.  All Influenza vaccine shipments include
    temperature monitors.  All monitors must be returned to the Defense 
Logistics Agency-Troop Support Medical (DLA-TSM) cold chain office after 
receipt, regardless of alarm status, per the included instructions and 
shipping materials.
        (1) No Alarm Status.  The vaccine is ready for immediate use.  Return        
temperature monitor to DLA-TSM.
        (2) Alarmed Status.  Do not administer vaccine.  Segregate the 
vaccine in the refrigerator with a sign saying, "DO NOT USE".  Return 
temperature monitor to DLA-TSM and await disposition.
    h.  Influenza Vaccine Exercise.  Influenza vaccination campaigns may
    be  used to exercise and evaluate mass vaccination scenarios in 
coordination with Emergency Management personnel.  These coordinated mass 
vaccination campaign exercises provide vaccinations rapidly and efficiently 
to protect the maximum  number of susceptible persons.  Process improvements 
are made to delivery and reporting procedures based on lessons learned.
    i.  Vaccine Delivery.  Due to vaccine demand and manufacturer 
requirements, complete vaccine delivery may be incremental throughout the 
season.
    j.  Influenza Vaccination Compliance.
        (1) Navy Military Personnel.  Seasonal influenza vaccination is 
mandatory for all DoD uniformed personnel who are not medically or        
administratively exempt, per references (a) through (d).  The process for        
requesting an exemption is described in references (a), (e) and (f).  Any        
refusal to receive the influenza vaccine, if a request for exemption has been        
denied, will constitute a failure to obey a lawful order and may be 
punishable under the Uniform Code of Military Justice and/or result in 
administrative action.  Prior to receiving the influenza vaccine, Navy Active 
and Reserve Component personnel will have access to healthcare providers to 
address questions or concerns with influenza vaccination.  Commands must 
consult with the servicing Staff Judge Advocate General for additional 
guidance on influenza vaccination non-compliance.
        (2) Navy Civilian Personnel.  Influenza vaccination is required for 
all civilian healthcare personnel as per references (b) and (c) and is 
strongly encouraged for all other Navy civilian employees.
        (3) TRICARE Beneficiaries.  Reference (g) authorizes retail network
        pharmacies to administer the seasonal influenza vaccine.  TRICARE 
beneficiaries may receive influenza vaccinations with no co-pay at authorized 
retail network pharmacies.  Beneficiaries are encouraged to contact the 
pharmacy regarding age restrictions as some pharmacies do not administer the 
influenza vaccine to individuals younger than 18 years of age.
    k.  Influenza Vaccination Reporting.  Active and Reserve Component Navy 
force vaccination administration compliance will be monitored via the Medical 
Readiness Reporting System (MRRS).  Designated command personnel will access 
MRRS to track their personnel to ensure compliance.
        (1) Shore-based commands will request access to MRRS based on their 
unit identification code by submitting a system access authorization request 
available at: https://mrrs.dc3n.navy.mil/mrrs/ (note: MRRS web address is 
case sensitive).  Point of contact: MRRS Program Office at e-mail:
mill_mrrs(at)navy.mil.  Ship-based commands may utilize Navy Medicine Online
(NMO) or Shipboard Non-Tactical ADP Program (SNAP) Automated Medical System
(SAMS) to populate MRRS.
        (2) Commands must ensure that documentation of influenza vaccine 
administration is coded to accurately reflect the type of vaccine given.
        (3) Afloat units will enter influenza immunizations into the SAMS / 
Theater Medical Information Program for subsequent transfer to MRRS.
        (4) All personnel who receive the vaccination from a retail network 
pharmacy must provide documentation of vaccination no later than the next 
duty or drill day to ensure compliance is appropriately recorded in their 
electronic health records and MRRS.  The following information will need to 
be provided, at a minimum: date vaccine was administered, vaccine name or 
code, manufacturer, expiration date, and lot number.
        (5) Vaccination Timeline.
            (a) Due to the risk of infection transmission within the unit and 
impact on operations, it is imperative that the vaccine be given with as 
minimal delay as possible.  Active duty units have 72 hours (three business 
working days) following receipt of the vaccine to document, begin 
administering, and report vaccination.  The 72-hour requirement begins 
immediately only if the temperature monitor is in "no alarm" status upon 
receipt; if in "alarmed" status the timed requirement begins once / if the 
vaccine is cleared for use by DLA-TSM.  If the 72-hour requirement cannot be 
met, unit situation reports will be submitted to the respective Immediate 
Superior in Command and Type Commanders.  Situation reports are not required 
if the temperature monitor is in alarmed status and the unit is awaiting 
disposition from DLA-TSM.
            (b) As Reserve Component Command schedules vary, NMRLC-Det and 
DLA-TSM will coordinate to make every effort for the vaccine to arrive the 
week of a drill weekend.  Units have one drill weekend following receipt of 
the vaccine to document, administer, and report vaccination if the 
temperature monitor is in a "no alarm" status.  If in "alarmed" status, the 
timed requirement begins once / if the vaccine is cleared for use by DLA-TSM.
        (6) Per paragraph 2.k, uniformed member compliance must be tracked in 
MRRS.  If desired, installations and MTFs may also use the Navy Family 
Accountability and Assessment System (NFAAS) to conduct a Pandemic Influenza 
response exercise in conjunction with the seasonal influenza vaccine program.
    l.  Navy Goals and Performance Standards.
        (1) To ensure force medical readiness before peak influenza season, 
all Navy operational units and Navy Medicine Readiness and Training Commands 
/ Units will administer the 2024-2025 influenza vaccination to all eligible 
Active and Reserve Component members (those without an approved medical or 
administrative exemption) by 31 December 2024.  Complete vaccine access will 
be provided for all Navy family members (includes dependents, other 
beneficiaries, and DoN civilians).  Active coordination between command 
leadership, public affairs officers, and medical personnel is necessary to 
achieve success.
        (2) Influenza Vaccination Performance Standards.  The following goals 
will be monitored:
            (a) Navy VIALS reports 100 percent of shipped vaccine received 
onboard by Fleet and Navy units by 1 December 2024.
            (b) MRRS reports 100 percent of required Active and Reserve 
Component personnel receive the seasonal influenza vaccine or an approved 
exemption (medical or administrative) by 31 December 2024.  Commands will 
coordinate with the servicing MTF to align command-wide vaccination exercises 
with Navy vaccination goals.  Medical personnel at servicing MTFs will 
promptly report vaccinations in MRRS.
    m.  DHA-Immunization Healthcare Division (DHA-IHD).
        (1) The DHA-IHD provides an electronic resource center for vaccine 
preventable diseases at https://www.health.mil/Military-Health-Topics/Health-
Readiness/Immunization-Healthcare.  It contains guidance (in the form of
        documents and templates) on vaccination storage and handling (to 
include cold chain management tools), vaccine administration (to include 
standing orders, vaccine product guides, and Vaccine Information Sheets 
[VISs]), and adverse event reporting.
        (2) The DHA-IHD 2024-2025 Seasonal Influenza Resource Center for 
Health Care Personnel can be found at https://www.health.mil/Military-Health-
Topics/Health-Readiness/Immunization-Healthcare/Vaccine-Preventable-
Diseases/Influenza-Seasonal-Northern-Hemisphere#Flu.
        (3) The DHA-IHD Immunization Healthcare Support Center can be reached
        via phone at: 1-877-GET-VACC (1-877-438-8222); or via email at:
        DoDvaccines(at)mail.mil.  The Support Center can provide clinical 
consultation, to include assistance with questions regarding vaccine 
screening and potential vaccine-related adverse events.

3.  Released by Rear Admiral Darin K. Via, N093, Surgeon General of the 
Navy.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
CLASSIFICATION: UNCLASSIFIED//

