UNCLASSIFIED//

ROUTINE

R 172159Z MAR 20 MID110000481380U

FM CNO WASHINGTON DC

TO NAVADMIN

INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC

BT
UNCLAS
PASS TO OFFICE CODES:
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC/N2N6//
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC/N2N6//

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N2N6/MAR// 

NAVADMIN 068/20

SUBJ/EFFECTIVE USE OF REMOTE WORK OPTIONS//

REF/A/NAVADMIN/OPNAV/122210ZMAR20//

REF/B/NAVADMIN/OPNAV/142000ZMAR20//

REF/C/ALNAV/SECNAV/121914ZMAR20//

REF/D/MEMO/DON CIO/ACCEPTABLE USE OF DEPARTMENT OF THE NAVY INFORMATION 
TECHNOLOGY/25FEB2020//

REF/E/WEBPAGE/RAS GUIDE FOR NMCI USERS//

NARR/REF A IS NAVADMIN 064/20, NAVY MITIGATION MEASURES IN RESPONSE TO 
CORONAVIRUS OUTBREAK.  
REF B IS NAVADMIN 065/20, NAVY MITIGATION MEASURES IN RESPONSE TO CORONAVIRUS 
OUTBREAK UPDATE 1.  
REF C IS ALNAV 025/20, VECTOR 15 FORCE HEALTH PROTECTION GUIDANCE FOR THE 
DEPARTMENT OF THE NAVY (DON).  
REF D IS DON CIO ACCEPTABLE USE OF DEPARTMENT OF THE NAVY INFORMATION 
TECHNOLOGY.  
REF E IS REMOTE ACCESS SERVICES WEBSITE FOR NMCI USERS AT 
https ://homeport.navy.mil/support/topics/remote-access-services-
(ras)/?sort=date&page=1.//

POC/ERIC MCCARTNEY/CAPT/OPNAV N2N6G32/EMAIL:  ERIC.S.MCCARTNEY(AT)NAVY.MIL
/TEL:  571-256-8399/DSN 312-260-8399//

RMKS/1.  This is a joint OPNAV N2N6 and Fleet Cyber Command, and Commander 
TENTH Fleet message.

2.  In addition to references (a) and (b), and to further mitigate the spread 
of Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19), reference (c) directed implementation 
of maximum telework flexibilities for shore commands, consistent with command 
operational needs as determined by their heads.

3.  The Joint Force Headquarters for Department of Defense Information 
Networks (JFHQ-DODIN) has begun to initiate the blocking of streaming media 
websites (YouTube, Netflix, Pandora, etc.) and may soon block social media 
websites (Facebook, Instagram, etc.) to maximize operational bandwidth 
available for COVID-19 response.  Exceptions to these policies with mission 
justification may be approved by O6/GS-15 or above and submitted via Fleet 
Cyber Command Battle Watch Captain at EMAIL:  c10f_bwc.fct(at)navy.mil.

4.  The following guidance applies to shore commands using Navy and Marine 
Corps Intranet (NMCI) and ONE-NET, describing the capacity of remote work 
resources and the priority in which they should be leveraged.  We must be 
prudent and optimize the utilization of the available network resources.  
Currently, NMCI and ONE-NET can support roughly 240,000 simultaneous 
connections for Outlook Web Access (OWA) and 40,000 for Virtual Private 
Network (VPN) access.  NAVWAR and PMW-205 are working to expand capacity, 
where possible, over the next several weeks.  There are a limited number of 
Mobikey and Enhanced Virtual Desktop (EVD)/Virtual Desktop Infrastructure 
(VDI) instances that may be used to support telework.  Navy does not intend 
to negotiate any more licenses.  Navy has issued 35,000 Blackberry Unified 
Endpoint Management (UEM) devices (iPhone, iPad and other mobile devices).  
Bandwidth limitations preclude the addition of new devices.

5.  Utilize remote work options in the following prioritized order:
    a.  Mobikey and EVD.
    b.  Mobile devices with Blackberry UEM.  Consider downloading all of the 
Blackberry Work / Edit / Access applications to get full capability, 
including the ability to edit documents.  Reach to your local support team 
for help in getting these apps on your phone.
    c.  OWA.  Ensure OWA users have a signed agreement and are well trained 
on OWA requirements and best practices.  Command Access Card (CAC) readers 
are required for use with OWA.  A CAC reader that has been used on a personal 
computer may NOT be brought back to work and used to connect to the DOD 
Information Networks (DoDIN).  If a government CAC reader is brought home and 
used, it must remain at home.  Individual commands will determine whether 
individuals should bring Government CAC readers home permanently to support 
OWA use.  As heavy OWA use is expected during the implementation of these 
measures, users should connect periodically to stay updated, but disconnect 
afterward to facilitate access for other remote users.  Users with government 
laptops should access email via OWA vice Remote Access Service (RAS) whenever 
possible to reduce RAS connection load.  Naval Network Warfare Command 
(NETWARCOM) enabled OWA to support file download and upload when using 
Internet Explorer (IE) ONLY.  Other browsers will not permit download or 
upload of attachments as files.  The use of IE for file download and upload 
provides new, additional flexibility while using OWA and should relieve some 
of the need for RAS access.
    d.  RAS.  Use in accordance with references (d) and (e).  The ratio of 
government laptops to available connections is about four to one (159,000 
devices with only 40,000 simultaneous connections available).  Again, 
personnel with government laptops should connect via OWA for email access as 
a first option to limit RAS connection load.  Using RAS when needed; 
personnel should only connect to download or transmit emails, or to access 
other resources only accessible by VPN, and then log off to reduce RAS 
connection load.  Work offline until next period needed to 
transmit/receive/access.  NETWARCOM is implementing time restrictions on the 
VPN, so expect to be kicked off if you are logged on too long.

6.  Defense Collaboration Services (DCS) is an available option for 
collaboration and virtual meetings at https://conference.apps.mil.
SharePoint portals may be used for collaboration and file sharing, including 
Milsuite at https://www.milsuite.mil.  Navy users should use only the DoD 
approved collaboration tools and not seek out commercial collaboration 
sources for DoD-only events.

7.  Mobile SIPRNET Device.  Senior leaders requiring mobile SIPRNET access 
may submit a request for a DoD Mobility Classified Capabilities (DMCC) device 
via echelon II Command Information Officer (CIO).  Due to limited number of 
devices, echelon II CIO requests will be consolidated and reviewed by OPNAV
N2N6 for submission to Defense Information Systems Agency (DISA).

8.  Additional remote work guidance:
    a.  Properly protect ALL Personally Identifiable Information (PII) and 
Protected Health Information (PHI) data.
    b.  One significant limitation of OWA use is inability to encrypt or 
decrypt emails by default.  One alternative is to enable encryption via OWA 
by user intervention (by making the OWA link a Trusted Site in browser 
security settings and enabling S/MIME control).  See the instructions posted 
on the references page listed in paragraph 11.  Another alternative is the 
use of Department of Defense (DoD) Secure Access File Exchange (SAFE) as 
described below in paragraph 8.
    c.  If you need to purchase your own CAC reader, https://milcac.us/tweaks 
lists the types of CAC readers best for your personal computer operating 
system.
    d.  For OWA, a government laptop should be the first choice; if no 
government laptop is assigned, use of a personal computer is permitted ONLY 
if a proper antivirus solution such as Microsoft Defender is operating on the 
device.  Antivirus solutions must be kept up to date.
    e.  Limit attachment file size to minimize network impact and prevent 
hitting inbox size limits.  If you must send large files, use services like 
DoD SAFE (https://safe.apps.mil).
    f.  Limit use of REPLY TO ALL when responding to group emails to minimize 
network traffic.
    g.  SIPRNET and JWICS accounts will continue to be disabled after 30 days 
without activity.  Consider logging in periodically to keep classified 
accounts active, even during this period of maximizing remote work.

9.  For secure and/or large file transfers, DoD SAFE is available for use.  
Both DoD CAC users and guests can use the service for UNCLASSIFIED files up 
to 8GB in size.  DoD SAFE is approved for transfer of FOR OFFICAL USE ONLY 
(FOUO), PII, and PHI data.  More information and the link to DoD SAFE can be 
found at the following link:  
https://www.doncio.navy.mil/ContentView.aspx?id=12723

10.  When using remote work options, information security is paramount.  As 
we continue to operate in remote work environment, we cannot allow ourselves 
to violate security protocols.  Using personal e-mail and other commercial 
services (e.g.:  Gmail, Zoom, WebEx, and others) for official business is not 
permitted.  The potential vulnerabilities open the door for our adversaries 
to collect information that could be used against us.  Getting the job done 
at the expense of information security is unacceptable.  It is better that 
work be delayed than be done in a way that compromises information.

11.  The NMCI and ONE-NET Help Desks are still the best avenue for help for 
individual users, along with seeking support with local representatives, such 
as NMCI assistant contract technical representatives (ACTRs).

12.  References in this NAVADMIN and links to additional remote work guidance 
can be found at 
https://portal.secnav.navy.mil/orgs/OPNAV/N2N6/DDCION/N2N6BC1/SitePages/Effec
tive%20Use%20of%20Remote%20Work%20Options.aspx

13.  Request widest dissemination.  This NAVADMIN will remain in effect until 
cancelled or superseded.

14.  Released by VADM Matthew J. Kohler, Deputy Chief of Naval Operations for 
Information Warfare, OPNAV N2N6.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//

