UNCLASSIFIED//

ROUTINE

R 251736Z MAR 21 MID200000727792U

FM CNO WASHINGTON DC

TO NAVADMIN

INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC

BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 068/21

PASS TO OFFICE CODES:
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/MAR//

SUBJ/NAVY SERVICE WIDE COMPLETION OF DEOCS 5.0//

REF/A/DOC/SECDEF/26FEB21//
REF/B/DOC/OUSD(P&R)/22MAR21//
REF/C/DOC/OPNAV/24JUL17//

NARR/REF A IS SECRETARY OF DEFENSE MEMORANDUM, IMMEDIATE ACTIONS TO COUNTER 
SEXUAL ASSAULT AND HARASSMENT AND THE ESTABLISHMENT OF A 90-DAY INDEPENDENT 
REVIEW COMMISSION ON SEXUAL ASSAULT IN THE MILITARY.  REF B IS THE OFFICE OF 
THE UNDER SECRETARY OF DEFENSE (PERSONNEL AND READINESS) MEMORANDUM, 
IMPLEMENTATION OF IMMEDIATE ACTIONS TO COUNTER SEXUAL ASSAULT AND HARASSMENT 
IN THE MILITARY.  REF C IS OPNAVINST 5354.1G, NAVY EQUAL OPPORTUNITY PROGRAM 
MANUAL.//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN directs active and reserve commanders, commanding 
officers and officers-in-charge to complete a Defense Organizational Climate 
Survey (DEOCS) for Active Component units by 30 April 2021 and Reserve 
Component units by 30 May 2021.

2.  On 26 February 2021, the Secretary of Defense (SECDEF) issued reference 
(a) that identifies immediate actions to counter sexual assault and 
harassment in the military.  Reference (b) provides guidance to implement the 
SECDEFs immediate actions.  Among the immediate actions required is the 
service completion of the DEOCS.

3.  Department-wide completion of the DEOCS will establish a baseline climate 
assessment, enabling transparency and accountability to allow the Department 
of the Navy to detect and correct emerging hot spots for harmful behaviors 
and climate issues and identify areas of promise and healthy command 
climates.

4.  The assessment must be completed using DEOCS 5.0 (released on 4 January 
2021).  Commands that have previously completed a DEOCS assessment using 
version 5.0 are not required to conduct another assessment to meet this 
requirement.
    a.  DEOCS instructions are available at https//www.defenseculture.mil 
/Assessment-to-Solutions/A2S-Home/.
    b.  All DEOCS assessments will be ordered using the commands official 
unit identification code.

5.  Commanders are not required to complete the full command climate 
assessment process unless it fulfills the reference (c) requirement to 
complete.
    a.  The command climate assessment within 90 days after assumption of 
command.
    b.  Follow-up assessments every 9 to 12 months during the commanders 
tenure.

6.  Once the DEOCS baseline is established, commanders must continue to 
conduct climate assessments using the methodologies and according to the 
timelines contained in reference (c).

7.  Compliance Tracking
    a.  The Deputy Chief of Naval Operations (Manpower, Personnel, Training, 
and
Education) (N1) will promulgate procedures for echelon 2 commanders to submit 
completion reports via a Department of the Navy Tasking, Records and 
Consolidated Knowledge Repository tasker.
    b.  It is understood that it may be difficult for deployed units to 
complete the DEOCS within the given timeframe due to operational 
requirements, available bandwidth and connectivity.  However, all 
organizations that are normally required to complete the DEOCS should do so 
to the extent it is practicable.  Exceptions must be approved by the echelon 
2 commander.

8.  Points of contact
    a.  For DEOCS specific questions (any questions regarding the system, how 
to log in, how to request surveys, how to take surveys, issues with logging 
in,
etc.) contact the help desk at deocs(at)datarecognitioncorp.com or at 1-833-
867 -5674.
    b.  DEOCS how-to guides are also available at 
https://www.defenseculture.mil /Assessment-to-Solutions/A2S-Home/.
    c.  For Navy specific questions contact the Navy Harassment Prevention 
and Military Equal Opportunity Office at (901) 874-2507/DSN 822, or via the 
Advice Line at 1-800-253-0931 or e-mail at MILL_Navy_EO_Advice(at)navy.mil.

9.  Released by Vice Admiral John B. Nowell, Jr, N1.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//


