UNCLASSIFIED//
ROUTINE
R 201958Z FEB 20 MID510000952260U
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC
BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 042/20

MSGID/NAVADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N4/FEB//

SUBJ//PROHIBITION OF PRIVATELY OWNED FIREARMS AND AMMUNITION BY INTERNATIONAL 
MILITARY STUDENTS AND THEIR ACCOMPANYING FAMILY MEMBERS//

REF/A/DOC/SECDEF//16JAN20//
REF/B/DOC/SECNAV//31JAN20//
REF/C/DOC/OPNAV//28JAN09//
NARR//REF A IS THE SECDEF MEMORANDUM/PROHIBITION ON THE TRANSPORT, 
POSSESSION, STORAGE, OR USE OF PRIVATELY OWNED FIREARMS AND NON-OFFICIAL 
AMMUNITION BY INTERNATIONAL MILITARY STUDENTS AND THEIR ACCOMPANYING FAMILY 
MEMBERS. 
REF B IS ALNAV 013/20/PROHIBITION OF PRIVATELY OWNED FIREARMS AND AMMUNITION 
BY INTERNATIONAL MILITARY STUDENTS AND THEIR ACCOMPANYING FAMILY MEMBERS. 
REF C IS OPNAVINST 5530.14E/NAVY PHYSICAL SECURITY AND LAW ENFORCEMENT 
PROGRAM.
POC/OPNAV N462/MR. ERIC HAMMETT/TEL: 703-695-5521 EMAIL:
ERIC.HAMMETT(AT)NAVY.MIL OR CWO5 LUIS MARTINEZ/TEL: 703-695-5526 EMAIL:
LUIS.A.MARTINEZ6(AT)NAVY.MIL.

RMKS/1.  Per references (a) and (b), international military students (IMS) 
and their accompanying family members are prohibited from the transport, 
possession, storage, or use of privately owned firearms (POF) and privately 
owned ammunition (POA).  The POF and POA guidance currently contained in 
reference (c) is not applicable to IMS or their accompanying family members.

2.  Policy
    a.  IMS and their accompanying family members, regardless of their 
country of origin are prohibited from possessing, using, transporting, or 
storing POF and POA on Navy installations or property in accordance with 
references (a) and (b).
    b.  Commanders of Navy installations or activities may not permit IMS or 
their accompanying family members to possess, use, transport, or store POF or 
POA on any Navy installation or property.
    c.  IMS are authorized use of government furnished firearms and 
ammunition when specifically required for official training, under the 
control of an official Navy representative, either on or off a Navy 
installation or property.
    d.  IMS and their accompanying family members must agree, as a condition 
of acceptance or continued enrollment in a DoD sponsored training program, 
that they will not bring a POF or POA with them to the United States, 
purchase a POF or POA while in the United States, or possess or use another 
individuals POF or POA on or off of DON installations or property.
    e.  IMS and their accompanying family members currently possessing POF 
and /or POA will, upon submission of an IMS Agreement Form to reference (a), 
execute one of the remedial options for POF and/or POA outlined in paragraphs 
3.C. of this message.  IMS Agreement Form will be provided by the Naval 
International Program Office (NIPO) or the Navy Education and Training for 
Security Assistance Field Activity (NETSAFA) designated representative 
presiding over the IMS.

3.  Responsibilities
    a.  Director, Shore Readiness (OPNAV N46).  OPNAV N46 will update 
OPNAVINST 5530.14E to include prohibition of POF and POA by IMS as outlined 
in this NAVADMIN.
    b.  Commander, Navy Installations Command
        (1) Provide all commanding officers, with assigned IMS, located 
within the U.S. and U.S. territories with a process to relinquish IMS POF and 
POA to installation commanding officers for safekeeping and accountability 
until the IMS completes their training and returns along with any 
accompanying family members to their home country.
        (2) No later than 19 February 2020, ensure installation commanding 
officers who have previously permitted IMS or their accompanying family 
members to possess, use, transport, or store POF and/or POA will direct those 
individuals to complete one of the following options:
            (a) Transfer the POF and/or POA to another individual not 
prohibited from possessing the POF or POA, in accordance with applicable laws 
and regulations.
            (b) Surrender all POF and/or POA to appropriate Navy Installation 
CO for safekeeping until the IMS completes their training and returns along 
with any accompanying family members to their home country.  Neither the IMS 
nor any accompanying family members will have access to the POF or POA until 
after returning to their home country.
            (c) Dispose of the POF and/or POA in accordance with applicable 
laws and regulations.
    c.  CO.  COs with assigned IMS will direct their staff International 
Military Student Officer (IMSO) to coordinate with NIPO via NETSAFA to ensure 
IMS complete the required IMS Agreement Form, as applicable:
        (1) No later than 15 April 2020, or prior to transfer to their next 
training installation, whichever comes sooner, COs with assigned IMS will 
direct their staff IMSO to obtain the IMS Agreement Form from all assigned 
IMS and their accompanying family members over 18 years of age, who are in 
the United States as of 16 January 2020, prohibiting their purchase and 
possession of POF and POA, as applicable.  The staff IMSO will submit the IMS 
Agreement Forms to NIPO via NETSAFA and their Immediate Superior in Command 
(ISIC).
        (2) IMS with accompanying family members who reach the age of 18 are 
required to submit written agreement for the family member to reference (b) 
within 10 days of the family members 18th birthday.  Accompanying family 
members that fail or refuse to submit the written agreement within 10 days of 
their 18th birthday are subject to return to home country.
        (3) If either the IMS or their accompanying family members over 18 
years of age fail to sign an agreement to these conditions, NIPO will 
terminate the training and return the IMS and/or accompanying family 
member(s) to their home country.

4.  Exception to this NAVADMIN will be submitted to OPNAV N4 via the 
appropriate chain of command.  Exception to policy request must meet 
applicable Federal, State, and local laws and regulations.  OPNAV N46 is the 
approval authority for a one-time, short-term exception to allow IMS or 
accompanying family member to possess and use, but not own, another 
individuals POF and POA off the installation.  Per reference (a), the Under 
Secretary of Defense is the approval authority for all other exceptions.

5.  Released by VADM R. L. Williamson, N4//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//

