UNCLASSIFIED//

ROUTINE

R 022018Z APR 20 MID110000547349U

FM CNO WASHINGTON DC

TO NAVADMIN

INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC

BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 093/20

PASS TO OFFICE CODES:
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC/N2N6//
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC/N2N6//

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N2N6/APR//

SUBJ/DOD COMMERCIAL VIRTUAL REMOTE (CVR) COLLABORATION ENVIRONMENT (CORRECTED 
COPY)//

REF/A/NAVADMIN/OPNAV/172220ZMAR20//

REF/B/NAVADMIN/OPNAV/212007ZMAR20//

REF/C/NAVADMIN/OPNAV/172220ZMAR20//

REF/D/DOC/NIST/APR2010//

NARR/REF A NAVADMIN 093/20.  REF B IS NAVADMIN 080/20, NAVY MITIGATION 
MEASURES IN RESPONSE TO CORONAVIRUS OUTBREAK UPDATE 3.  REF C IS NAVADMIN 
068/20, EFFECTIVE USE OF REMOTE WORK OPTIONS.  REF D IS NIST SP 800-122, 
GUIDE TO PROTECTING THE CONFIDENTIALITY OF PERSONALLY IDENTIFIABLE 
INFORMATION (PII).// POC/ERIC MCCARTNEY/CAPT/OPNAV N2N6G32/EMAIL:  
ERIC.S.MCCARTNEY(AT)NAVY.MIL
/TEL:  571-256-8399/DSN 312-260-8399//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN updates reference (a) to amplify paragraphs 5
(onboarding) and 7 (support) in their entirety.  This NAVADMIN provides 
policy and guidance for the use of Department of Defense (DoD) Commercial 
Virtual Remote (CVR) environment for official business.  This is a joint 
OPNAV N2N6, Fleet Cyber Command, and U.S. TENTH Fleet message.

2.  To mitigate the spread of Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19), reference 
(b) directed implementation of maximum telework flexibilities for shore 
commands, consistent with command operational needs, as determined by their 
respective leadership.  Reference (c) provided general guidance for remote 
work using Department of the Navy (DON) Information Technology (IT).

3.  Remote work capability and capacity using Remote Access Service (RAS) 
/Virtual Private Networks (VPNs), Outlook Web Access (OWA), and other means 
have significantly increased over the past several weeks.  More capacity is 
needed and work continues in this area.  To further increase collaboration 
capabilities for the workforce during maximized remote work operations, DoD 
has established the Commercial Virtual Remote (CVR) environment.  CVR is a 
limited, DoD-only instance of Microsoft Teams and OneDrive for Business 
(ODfB), a communication and collaboration, cloud-based platform integrated 
with Microsoft Office 365.  As this is only a temporary solution, any 
critical working documents or official records created in this environment 
must be saved to an approved alternate location (e.g., Navy/Marine Corps 
Intranet (NMCI) / Outside Continental United States (OCONUS) Navy Enterprise 
Network (ONE-Net) shared drive or hard drive).  All data in CVR environment 
will be destroyed at the conclusion of the COVID-19 emergency.  The full CVR 
rollout plan will be promulgated via separate correspondence.

4.  Capabilities.
    a.  Teams enables users to create shared workspaces for audio, video, and 
chat.  Audio and video are currently not available when connecting via NMCI 
or ONE-Net.
    b.  ODfB enables limited file sharing and storage, integrated with Teams.
    c.  CVR includes Microsoft Online (Word, PowerPoint, and Excel) for 
online file creation and editing, eliminating the need for users to create 
and/or edit files on non-government computers.  No other Microsoft Office 365 
capabilities will be offered, specifically Outlook (email and calendars).
    d.  CVR will be available from both Navy and commercial networks.  Both 
government and personal devices may be used, including desktop and laptop 
computers, tablets, and mobile phones.  Again, when connecting to Teams via 
NMCI or ONE-Net, audio and video capabilities are not available.
    e.  Per existing user agreements, data created, used, and shared within 
CVR are subject to monitoring and applicable policy and guidelines.

5.  Onboarding.
    a.  As part of a gradual CVR rollout over the next several weeks, by 
Command, Navy users will receive an automated email message from Microsoft 
Teams inviting CVR account registration.  This message will contain a 
username and temporary password.
    b.  The email address used to reach each Navy member will be the one 
listed in their milConnect military (MIL), civilian (CIV), or contractor 
(CTR) profile.  Verify your e-mail address at 
https://www.dmdc.osd.mil/milconnect
using the below instructions.
        (1) After signing in to this site, under I want to on the home page, 
select Update personal contact info, which will take you to the Update and 
View My Profile page.
        (2) In the middle of the Update and View My Profile page is a 
Personal heading and at least one professional heading such as MIL, CIV, or 
CTR.  Click on the MIL, CIV, or CTR profile heading.  Those with two or more 
professional profiles should perform this email verification for each one, as 
separate CVR accounts will be established for each professional profile.
        (3) Scroll to the bottom of the page and verify the Primary Personnel 
Email address under the bolded heading Personnel Email Addresses.  This is 
usually the navy.mil address registered on your Common Access Card (CAC).
        (4) If the email address needs to be changed and it is greyed out, go 
to https://www.dmdc.osd.mil/self_service, click the Sign In button on the 
home page, and then click the Change CAC Email button under the CAC 
Maintenance portion of the page.
    c.  Many pilot users found it easier to complete initial account setup 
from home using a non-VPN commercial connection vice from work while logged 
into NMCI or ONE-Net.
    d.  During Teams set up, a phone number is required to authenticate 
access.  During initial setup, provide a phone number to which you have 
immediate access.  Once initial setup is complete, recommend adding an 
alternate number (ie. work and personal) ensuring access from both locations.  
Add alternate authentication phone numbers via the security verification 
page:  https://account.activedirectory.windowsazure.com
/Proofup.aspx).
    e.  Users may download the Teams application to their personal devices or 
use the Teams web client with the Microsoft Edge browser.  Users on 
government computers should use the Teams web client with the Microsoft Edge 
browser.
    f.  Microsoft Authenticator is available to streamline log on for 
multiple personal devices.

6.  Restrictions.
    a.  CVR is authorized For Official Use Only (FOUO) information up to 
Controlled Unclassified Information (CUI), except:
        (1) CUI under the control and direction of the DoD (Controlled 
Technical Information, Critical Infrastructure Security Information, Naval 
Nuclear Propulsion Information, and Unclassified Controlled Nuclear 
Information Defense);
        (2) All data types under the Law Enforcement CUI grouping;
        (3) All data types under Privacy data, except low confidentiality 
impact PII (as defined in reference (d)).
    b.  CVR is established only for the duration of the COVID-19 emergency.  
Upon return to normal operations, the environment will be shut down and all 
data in it will be permanently deleted.
    c.  In the event unauthorized information is introduced to a personally 
owned device, the device may be subject to inspection and sanitization by 
appropriately authorized Navy personnel.
    d.  All personnel shall use cybersecurity best practices for telework as 
discussed in reference (b).  This includes, but is not limited to, patching 
personal devices, using up-to-date anti-virus software, and limiting download 
of files to personal devices.

7.  Support.
    a.  As CVR is not a service provided by NMCI or ONE-Net, users shall not 
call Navy enterprise service desks (NMCI or ONE-Net Help Desks) for CVR-
related issues.
    b.  User training for the Teams/ODfB application is available at 
https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoftteams/enduser-training.
    c.  After accessing the CVR environment, additional training resources, 
events, and more and available at:  https://dodtelework.sharepoint.com/sites
/TeamsLearning.
    d.  FAQs, troubleshooting, and other self-help documentation is available 
at the DoD Cloud Computing Program Office (CCPO) CVR support website 
https://www.cloud.mil/cvr.
    e.  Commands are invited to establish local champions to help support the 
use of this new environment.  Champions are invited to join the USN Teams 
Champions channel to share ideas with, and seek help from, other champions.  
Individual users are encouraged to contact these CVR champions, local N6, 
command information officer (CIO), or knowledge management personnel first 
for assistance or more information.
    f.  If unable to resolve an issue locally or through the USN Teams 
Support channel online, limited Help Desk support is available by email at 
cvr_il2_teams.fct(at)navy.mil.  The second section of this email address is 
INDIA LIMA TWO.  Please limit email queries to those of the highest priority.

8.  Request widest dissemination.  This NAVADMIN will remain in effect until 
cancelled or superseded.

9.  Released by VADM Matthew J. Kohler, Deputy Chief of Naval Operations for 
Information Warfare, OPNAV N2N6.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//

