UNCLASSIFIED//

ROUTINE

R 152131Z MAY 20 MID110000692205U

FM CNO WASHINGTON DC

TO NAVADMIN

INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC

BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 144/20

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/MAY//

SUBJ/RECOMMENCEMENT OF SELECTION BOARDS AND ANNOUNCEMENT OF REVISED 
SCHEDULE//

REF/A/NAVADMIN/OPNAV/182232ZMAR20//
REF/B/NAVADMIN/OPNAV/271705ZAPR20//
REF/C/NAVADMIN/OPNAV/301629ZOCT19//
REF/D/NAVADMIN/OPNAV/021320ZDEC19//
REF/E/NAVADMIN/OPNAV/041542ZFEB20//
REF/F/NAVADMIN/OPNAV/101613ZDEC19//
REF/G/NAVADMIN/OPNAV/101855ZDEC19//
REF/H/NAVADMIN/OPNAV/231939ZDEC19//
REF/I/NAVADMIN/OPNAV/111355ZMAR20//

NARR/REF A IS NAVADMIN 072/20, POSTPONEMENT OF SELECTION BOARD SCHEDULE.  
REF B IS NAVADMIN 121/20, SUPPLEMENTAL NUMBER TWO FOR E4 THROUGH E7 FEBRUARY 
2020 (CYCLE 106) SELECTIVE RESERVE AND MARCH
2020 (CYCLE 247) E4 THROUGH E6 ACTIVE-DUTY, FULL-TIME SUPPORT AND CANVASSER 
RECRUITER NAVY-WIDE ADVANCEMENT EXAMINATIONS.  
REF C IS NAVADMIN 245/19, FY-21 NAVY ACTIVE-DUTY AND RESERVE E9, E8 AND E7 
SELECTION BOARD MEMBERSHIP NOMINATIONS (CORRECTED COPY).  
REF D IS NAVADMIN 271/19, FY-21 ACTIVE DUTY AND RESERVE ENLISTED ADVANCEMENT 
SELECTION BOARDS FOR MASTER CHIEF AND SENIOR CHIEF PETTY OFFICER.
REF E IS NAVADMIN 031/20, FY-21 NAVY ACTIVE-DUTY AND RESERVE ENLISTED 
ADVANCEMENT SELECTION BOARDS FOR CHIEF PETTY OFFICER.  
REF F IS NAVADMIN 286 /19, NOTICE OF CONVENING FY-21 ACTIVE-DUTY NAVY 
PROMOTION SELECTION BOARDS (CORRECTED COPY).  
REF G IS NAVADMIN 287/19, NOTICE OF CONVENING FY-21 ACTIVE-DUTY NAVY OFFICER 
CONTINUATION SELECTION BOARDS AND ANNOUNCEMENT OF CONTINUATION POLICY.  
REF H IS NAVADMIN 305/19, NOTICE OF CONVENING FY-21 NAVY RESERVE PROMOTION 
SELECTION BOARDS.  
REF I IS NAVADMIN 061/20, MODIFICATION TO NOTICE OF CONVENING FY-21 ACTIVE-
DUTY OFFICER CONTINUATION SELECTION BOARDS AND ANNOUNCEMENT OF CONTINUATION 
POLICY.//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN announces the recommencement of promotion, 
advancement, continuation, milestone and other administrative selection 
boards that were postponed in line with reference (a) and will be convened at 
Navy Personnel Command (NPC).  After pausing administrative and statutory 
promotion boards to assess conditions and properly incorporate risk 
mitigation measures, we plan to recommence convening of selection boards at 
NPC in Millington, TN on 1 July with out-of-area participants.  In the 
interim, we have completed some smaller administrative boards via virtual 
means and in some cases using local area membership, and will continue to do 
so where appropriate. The revised schedule for officer promotion and 
associated continuation selection boards and enlisted advancement selection 
boards is provided below.  The schedule for community milestone and other 
administrative selection boards to be convened at NPC is available at 
https://www.public.navy.mil/bupers-
npc/boards/selectionboardsupport/Pages/FY21-Board-Schedule.aspx.
Some communities will execute their milestone and other administrative 
selection boards by virtual means or at locations other than NPC.  Refer to 
community announcements on your applicable community section of the NPC 
website at https://www.public.navy.mil/bupers-npc/Pages/default.aspx or 
contact your detailer for specific information concerning these boards.

2.  In line with reference (a), eligibility will be as of the original board 
convening date.  Official Military Personnel Files for use during the boards 
are captured as of the original board convening date.  Deadlines for 
correspondence to a board remain the same as originally set with the 
exception of the Reserve E-7 Board, which now has a deadline of 18 May 2020 
per reference (b).  The Reserve E-7 Board correspondence deadline was 
extended to compensate for delays in the Reserve E-7 eligibility.  In order 
to maintain a fair and impartial balance across the fleet, the remaining 
correspondence deadlines remain the same.  Should Service Member eligibility 
remain unclear, submit correspondence regardless.

3.  The health, safety and well-being of those supporting the selection board 
mission is paramount in a COVID-19 informed environment and precautions to 
protect all participants will be taken.  While all the planned COVID-19 risk 
mitigation measures are too numerous to detail in this NAVADMIN, collectively 
these prudent precautions are critical to the accomplishment of the selection 
board mission and apply in lieu of restriction of movement (ROM) protocols 
that would otherwise apply for essential travel prior to and following 
membership on a selection board.  Precautions include, but are not limited 
to, the following risk mitigation measures:
    a.  Minimizing risk to force by combining boards and recycling board 
membership across multiple boards to reduce travel requirements.
    b.  Phased convening of our largest boards to minimize number of board 
members within board spaces at any one time.
    c.  Modifying the boardroom and tank layout to maximize social 
distancing.
    d.  Self-assessment of individual health prior to travel, precautions 
during travel such as Service Members sourcing from locations that maximize 
the use of direct flights or individual ground transportation (POV or rental) 
where practicable, use of face coverings during travel and additional shuttle 
service runs with occupancy limits to/from the Memphis International Airport.
    e.  Revised protocols for entrance into board spaces that include COVID-
19 questionnaires, daily touchless body temperature readings and wristbands 
for rapid identification of cleared membership within board spaces.
    f.  Alternative meal plans, to include furnished breakfast, lunch and 
dinner to maximize social distancing and eliminate the need to depart Naval 
Support Activity Millington.
    g.  Additional cleaning services to maintain the highest standards of 
cleanliness within the dining facility, conference room (additional dining 
area) and all board spaces.
    h.  Additional personal protective equipment available to board 
membership as necessary.
    i.  Prominently displayed and adequately supplied hand-sanitizer 
throughout each board.

4.  FY-21 Active-Duty Officer Promotion Selection Boards (PSBs):
The postponed FY-21 PSBs to recommend officers in the Line and Staff Corps 
and chief warrant officers on the Active-Duty List (ADL) for permanent 
promotion to the grades of commander, lieutenant commander and chief warrant 
officer will convene as follows:
    a.  6 July 2020 - Staff Corps Commander and Lieutenant Commander
    b.  13 July 2020 - Unrestricted/Restricted Line Lieutenant Commander
    c.  1 September 2020 - Chief Warrant Officer 5/4/3

5.  FY-21 Active-Duty Officer Continuation Selection Boards will convene as 
follows:
    a.  Active-Duty Lieutenant Commander Staff Corps Continuation Selection 
Board will follow the Active-Duty Commander Staff Corps Promotion Selection 
Board.
    b.  Active-Duty Lieutenant Staff Corps Continuation Selection Board for 
eligible competitive categories will follow the Active- Duty Lieutenant 
Commander Staff Corps Promotion Selection Board.
    c.  Active-Duty Lieutenant Line Continuation Selection Board for eligible 
competitive categories with applicable additional qualification designators 
will follow the Active-Duty Lieutenant Commander Promotion Selection Board.
    d.  The Active-Duty CWO4/CWO3/CWO2 Continuation Selection Boards will 
follow the Active-Duty CWO5/CWO4/CWO3 Promotion Selection Boards.
    e.  Due to the delay in promotion boards, for those officers whose 
statutory retirement date falls prior to the expected announcement of officer 
promotion results, guidance will be provided in separate correspondence.

6.  FY-21 Reserve/Full Time Support (FTS) PSBs:  The postponed FY-21 PSBs to 
recommend reserve officers in the Line and Staff Corps and chief warrant 
officers on the Reserve Active-Status List (RASL) for permanent or temporary 
promotion to the grades of lieutenant commander and chief warrant officer 
will convene as follows:
    a.  1 July 2020 - Chief Warrant Officer 5/4/3
    b.  20 July 2020 - Unrestricted/Restricted Line Lieutenant Commander
    c.  31 August 2020 - Staff Corps Lieutenant Commander

7.  FY-21 Enlisted Advancement Selection Boards:  The postponed FY-
21 advancement selection boards will convene as follows:
    a.  Active-Duty E-9 and E-8 - Conducted in phases as follows:
        (1) Phase 1:  27 July  4 August 2020 (Members travel on 26 July 
2020).
            Ratings considered:  EM, MM, HT, DC, EN, GS, MR, ET, FC, FCA, GM, 
IC, STG, YN, YNS, MC, LN, CMDCM, PS, NCC, NCR and MU.
        (2) Phase 2:  4 August  14 August 2020 (Service Members travel on 3 
August 2020).
            Ratings considered:  CTI, CTM, CTR, CTT, AG, IS, IT, SO, SB, ND, 
EOD, MA, CE, CU, CM, EQ, UT, EMN, ETN, MMN, ETR, ETV, FT, MMA, TM, MT, STS 
and ITS.
        (3) Phase 3:  14 August  29 August 2020 (Service Members travel on 13 
August 2020).
            Ratings considered:  HM, RP, CS, CSS, LS, LSS, RS, ABE, ABF, ABH, 
AC, AO, AS, AZ, AD, AM, PR, BM, MN, OS, QM, AE, AT, AWR, AWS, AWO, AWV and 
AWF.
    b. Reserve and Full-Time Support (FTS) E-7  8 September 2020 (single 
phase).
    c.  Active-Duty E-7 - Conducted in three phases as follows:
        (1) Phase 1:  5 October  13 October 2020 (Service Members travel on 4 
October 2020).
            Ratings considered:  EM, MM, HT, DC, EN, GSE, GSM, MR, BU, CE, 
CM, EA, EO, SW, UT, MU, MC, RP, BM, MN, OS, QM, AE, AT, ET, IC and STG.
        (2) Phase 2:  13 October  24 October 2020 (Service Members travel on 
12 October 2020).
            Ratings considered:  ETR, ETV, FT, ITS, MT, MMA, STS, TM, CTI, 
CTM, CTN, CTR, CTT, NC, PS, YN, YNS, FC, FCA, GM, AC, AS, AWF, AWO, AWR, AWS, 
AWV, AZ, ABE, ABF, ABH and AO.
        (3) Phase 3:  24 October  7 November 2020 (Service Members travel on 
23 October 2020).
            Ratings considered:  EMN, ETN, MMN, AG, IS, IT, HM, AD, AM, AME, 
PR, CS, CSS, LS, LSS, RS, EOD, LN, MA, ND, SB and SO.

8.  Reference (c) announced the solicitation of enlisted selection board 
participants (Service Members and recorders) and provided eligibility 
criteria for serving.  The criteria of reference (c) continue to apply, but 
as the board dates have changed, the previously promulgated due dates for 
receipt of Service Member and recorder applications are no longer applicable.  
Sailors meeting the eligibility criteria and availability to serve as members 
or recorders for a board are strongly encouraged to submit applications as 
soon as practicable.  Board Presidents, Senior Enlisted Advisors, recorders 
and other specified board members will comprise a core group whose services 
will span the entire duration of a board.  The service of other board members 
will be required only for particular phase(s) of a board based on rating 
expertise and availability.
Refer to paragraph 7 above for the dates of the phases in which the various 
ratings will be considered.  Applicants must clearly state their availability 
in the application.  Details for application submission are provided in 
reference (c).

9.  Point of contact information for submitting enlisted advancement 
selection board nominations is as follows:
    a.  Mr. Bryan Gillentine at (901) 874-3223 / DSN 882.
    b.  Dr. Ruby Snowden at (901) 874-2209 / DSN 882.
    c.  Email:  PERS-805.fct(at)navy.mil.
    d.  General Board inquiries:  MyNavy Career Center (MNCC) at
(833) 330-6622 / askmncc(at)navy.mil.

10.  Navy leadership is committed to ensuring no Sailor is disadvantaged by 
the delay in any selection board convening or during the consideration of the 
record of any eligible Sailor by a board.  Although review, approval and 
Senate confirmation (where applicable) of board results cannot occur this 
year with traditional timing, selectees for promotion or advancement can 
expect to be assigned the original date of rank and receive any associated 
back pay and allowances warranted.  Enlisted advancement board results are 
expected to be approved and announced within 30 days after a board adjourns.  
Due to the additional reviews required following officer promotion boards, 
results are expected to be approved and announced by ALNAV approximately 100 
days after a board adjourns.  Efforts will be made to accelerate these 
processes.  Subsequent to officer promotion board approval and ALNAV release, 
Senate confirmation is required prior to promotion of active-duty commanders 
and lieutenant commanders.  Promotion authorizations and associated dates of 
rank will be announced via the existing monthly promotion NAVADMIN process.

11.  Released by Vice Admiral John B. Nowell, Jr, N1.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//

