UNCLASSIFIED//

ROUTINE

R 301925Z APR 20 MID110000636146U

FM CNO WASHINGTON DC

TO NAVADMIN

INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC

BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 125/20

PASS TO OFFICE CODES:
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/APR//

SUBJ/UPDATE TO SPRING FY-20 FULL-TIME SUPPORT OFFICER TRANSFER AND 
REDESIGNATION BOARD//

REF/A/MSG/CNO WASHINGTON DC/102001ZFEB20//

REF/B/DOC/COMNAVPERSCOM/4MAY19//

REF/C/DOC/COMNAVPERSCOM/21JUN07//

REF/D/DOC/COMNAVPERSCOM/11SEP16//

NARR/REF A IS NAVADMIN 037/20, SPRING FY-20 FULL-TIME SUPPORT OFFICER 
TRANSFER AND REDESIGNATION BOARD.  REF B IS MILPERSMAN ARTICLE 1001-020, 
FULL-TIME SUPPORT (FTS) OF THE NAVY RESERVE OFFICER PROGRAM.  REF C IS 
MILPERSMAN ARTICLE 1301-213, OFFICER SPECIAL ASSIGNMENTS - RESERVE FLEET 
LOGISTICS SUPPORT SQUADRON (VR).
REF D IS MILPERSMAN ARTICLE 1321-100, ORDERS FOR OFFICER SPECIAL PROGRAMS.//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN supersedes reference (a) and provides an update to the 
convening of the Spring Fiscal Year (FY) 2020 Full- Time Support (FTS) 
Officer Transfer and Redesignation Board.  The Spring FY-20 FTS Officer 
Transfer and Redesignation Board will convene on 19 May 2020.  Applications 
from qualified Active Component (AC) and Selected Reserve (SELRES) officers 
will be considered by this board.  In line with reference (b), this board 
will also accept applications from FTS officers requesting redesignation into 
another FTS officer community.

2.  Application requirements and procedures can be found via MyNavy Portal at 
https://www.mnp.navy.mil/group/career-planning and selecting the FTS 
Redesignation Boards link.  Complete applications with associated enclosures 
must be received no later than (NLT) 2359 on 6 May 2020.

3.  Eligibility
    a.  All applicants must meet eligibility requirements outlined in 
reference (b) and the Spring FY-20 FTS eligibility criteria document found on 
the redesignation website.  Specific eligibility requirements are described 
for each designator and aviation community.  General eligibility criteria 
include projected rotation date (PRD), minimum service requirement (MSR), 
year group (YG) and aviation bonus (AvB) contracts.
        (1) PRD.  Applicants should have a PRD NLT 31 October 2021.
Waiver requests will need to be endorsed by your commanding officer
(CO) with your application.
        (2) MSR.  AC applicants should have completed their MSR prior to 31 
October 2021.  Waiver requests (no additional documentation required by the 
applicant) will be considered on a case-by-case basis by your AC officer 
community manager (OCM).
        (3) AvB.  Aviation officers with obligated service as a result of AvB 
are eligible to apply if within 12 months of completing AvB obligation or 
department head tour at the time the board convenes.  Redesignation 
immediately following a department head tour may result in the cancellation 
of AvB, which will be adjudicated by Aviation Officer Assignments.
        (4) Failure of Selection (FOS).  AC officers in a 2xFOS status for 
promotion to lieutenant commander are eligible to apply for FTS regardless of 
MSR and AvB contract term; a waiver request is not required.
        (5) YG.  The approved eligible YGs are posted on the FTS OCM webpage 
with the remainder of the application data.
    b.  All AC applications will be routed by the FTS OCM through the 
applicable AC OCM for community release prior to applications being sent to 
the board.  Applicants who are not released by the AC OCM will not be 
eligible for the board.  AC officers with a submitted resignation or 
lieutenants in a 2xFOS status are eligible to apply and do not require AC OCM 
release.
    c.  Limited duty officers are eligible for the FTS program and must 
possess a four-year baccalaureate degree.
    d.  Service Members who do not meet all eligibility requirements in line 
with reference (b) and the Spring FY-20 FTS eligibility criteria document 
posted on the FTS redesignation board website will be pending waiver approval 
by Head Reserve OCM (BUPERS-35) without any applicant action.  If a PRD 
waiver is required, the CO must acknowledge the request within the 
application endorsement.

4.  Officers applying for multiple designators and/or communities will be 
selected based on the needs of the Navy and not personal preference.

5.  AC officers will incur a minimum 2-year FTS obligation if selected.  In 
line with references (c) and (d), aviators selected for the Fleet Logistics 
Support Squadron (VR) community will incur a 3-year FTS obligation.  All 
SELRES officers will incur a 3-year FTS obligation regardless of community.  
All FTS obligations will begin on the date a Service Member redesignates as 
an FTS Officer unless otherwise stated in reference (d).

6.  Upon approval of the board proceedings, the board results will be posted 
on the FTS redesignation board website.  Applicants can expect to see the 
results posted within 30 days of board adjournment.  Within 2 weeks of the 
results posting, selectees will receive an acceptance package and will have 
10 days upon receipt to accept or decline FTS transfer/redesignation.

7.  Points of contact are CDR Christopher Labissiere, Affiliation and 
Redesignation (PERS-92), at (901) 874-4512/DSN 882 or via e-mail at 
christopher.labissie(at)navy.mil, or YN1 Lorena Santens, PERS-92, at (901) 
874-4599/DSN 882 or via e-mail at lorena.santens(at)navy.mil.

8.  This NAVADMIN will remain in effect until superseded or canceled, 
whichever occurs first.

9.  Released by Vice Admiral John B. Nowell, Jr, N1.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//


