UNCLASSIFIED//

ROUTINE

R 282137Z JAN 20 MID110000348474U

FM CNO WASHINGTON DC

TO NAVADMIN

INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC

BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 024/20

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N4/JAN//

SUBJ/ADMIRAL STAN ARTHUR AWARDS-CALL FOR CALENDAR YEAR 2019 NOMINATIONS//

REF/A/DOC/OPNAV/18SEP2017//

AMPN/REF A IS OPNAVINST 5305.8D, ADMIRAL STAN ARTHUR AWARDS FOR LOGISTICS 
EXCELLENCE.// POC/ADAM HILLIARD/LCDR/OPNAV N412/TEL:  (703)614-7963
/EMAIL:  ADAM.HILLIARD(AT)NAVY.MIL//
POC/JEREMY TAYLOR/LCDR/OPNAV N412/TEL:  (703)695-4864
/EMAIL:  JEREMY.B.TAYLOR1(AT)NAVY.MIL//

RMKS/1.  Per reference (a), nominations are requested for the annual Admiral 
Stan Arthur Awards.  Submit all nominations, not to exceed two pages, using 
OPNAVINST 5305/8 (Rev. Oct 2013) which can be downloaded and filled out from 
https://forms.documentservices.dla.mil/process/.  Categories are:
    a.  Military Logistician of the Year
    b.  Civilian Logistician of the Year
    c.  Logistics Team(s) of the Year

2.  In line with the Navys design for maintaining maritime superiority and 
emphasis on innovation and high velocity learning, the Admiral Stan Arthur 
Award will recognize Navy military and civilian individuals and team(s) whose 
contributions and suggestions during calendar year (CY) 2019 have:
    a.  Demonstrably enhanced the combat capability of the operating forces
    b.  Advanced technology, products, services and/or processes
    c.  Resolved major logistics issues
    d.  Developed innovative logistics that merit adoption for standard use
    e.  Had a positive effect on joint operations
    f.  Advanced Chief of Naval Operations guidance for CY 2019

3.  Nominees may be involved in any and all phases of Navy acquisition, 
operational logistics, and Joint Services logistics, from early life-cycle 
planning to in-service logistics support.  Nominees may come from a variety 
of communities, to include, but not limited to:  civil engineering, supply, 
medical, fuel, ordnance and maintenance.  Contractors may be included on team 
award submissions, but will not receive monetary awards.

4.  Individuals and team(s) selected to receive the Admiral Stan Arthur Award 
for CY 2019 will be announced via Naval message.

5.  Award selectees receive the following:
    a.  Plaque and certificate for individual category and team(s)
    b.  $5,000 for Military Logistician of the Year
    c.  $5,000 for Civilian Logistician of the Year
    d.  $10,000 for the winning team to share among its military and civilian 
members

6.  Submit nominations in response to Department of the Navy (DON) Tasking, 
Records, and Consolidated Knowledge Enterprise Repository (TRACKER) tasker, 
or via email if DON TRACKER is unavailable, through echelon II command or 
Joint Force Headquarters to Director, Logistics  Supply Chain Operations 
Division (OPNAV N41) no later than Friday, 10 April 2020.  Echelon II 
commands may submit a total of three nominations, no more than one per award 
category.  Joint Force Headquarters may submit one naval nominee in each 
award category and one team nomination.  The joint team nomination may be 
comprised of non-naval military personnel if the Navy has administrative and 
support responsibility for the joint activity.  To receive confirmation of 
package arrival, nomination package must include email address and phone 
number of echelon II command or Joint Force Headquarters point of contact.  
Packages for individual military and civilian nominees must include a one-
page biography.

7.  Released by VADM R. L. Williamson, N4.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//

