UNCLASSIFIED

ROUTINE

R 041910Z MAR 22 MID200001547384U

FM CNO WASHINGTON DC

TO NAVADMIN

INFO SECNAV WASHINGTON DC
CNO WASHINGTON DC

BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 053/22

MSGID/NAVADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N2N6/MAR//

SUBJ/NAVY AND MARINE CORPS INTRANET (NMCI) WINDOWS 10 VERSION 20H2 OPERATING 
SYSTEM UPGRADE//

REF/A/MSG/COMFLTCYBERCOM/141720ZJAN22/-/NOTAL//
REF/B/MSG/COMFLTCYBERCOM/211750ZJAN22/-/NOTAL//
REF/C/MSG/COMFLTCYBERCOM/172102ZFEB22/-/NOTAL//

NARR/REF A IS COMMANDER, FLEET CYBER COMMAND (COMFLTCYBERCOM) OPERATIONS 
ORDER 22-003 WHICH PROVIDES TASKING AND SEQUENCING FOR THE PHASED OPERATIONAL 
MANEUVER OF THE NAVY AND MARINE CORPS INTRANET ENTERPRISE NETWORKS TO WINDOWS 
10, VERSION 20H2.  
REF B IS THE COMFLTCYBERCOM EXECUTION ORDER DIRECTING THE EXECUTION OF PHASE 
1 AS OUTLINED IN REF A.  
REF C IS THE COMFLTCYBERCOM FRAGMENTARY ORDER DIRECTING THE EXECUTION OF 
PHASE 2 AS OUTLINED IN REF A.// POC/PMW 205 WIN 10 COORDINATION CENTER/E-
MAIL: WIN10COORDINATIONCENTER(AT)US.NAVY.MIL//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN reinforces the COMFLTCYBERCOM direction outlined in 
references (a) through (c), to upgrade Navy and Marine Corps Intranet (NMCI) 
workstations to Windows 10 Version 20H2 (v20H2).  The operation is currently 
in the SELF SERVICE phase, and will transition to ENFORCEMENT on 11 April 
2022 followed by QUARANTINE in May 2022.  OCONUS Navy Enterprise Network 
(ONE-Net) and base level information infrastructure updates have been managed 
via separate correspondence.

2.  Commanders are advised to take maximum advantage of the SELF SERVICE 
phase to minimize impact to operations.
    a.  Manage impact by sequencing transitions at a timing and tempo 
suitable to mission requirements.
    b.  Prioritize the replacement of workstations that are not capable of 
supporting the v20H2 update.
    c.  Identify workstations that may require local reimaging, a labor and 
time -intensive process.

3.  Since the v20H2 update can take several hours, Navy NMCI users are 
encouraged to initiate it at the end of the workday or during a known period 
of inactivity.
    a.  Navy NMCI Users must launch the Seat Health Check app found on the 
desktop/start menu to verify if their workstation is ready to update.  For 
workstations that are offline, users are required to immediately connect, 
turn on, and log-in to allow the workstation to receive all updates and 
upgrade to v20H2 using the same Seat Health Check app.
    b.  Within the Seat Health Check app, expand the Update Readiness:  Semi 
-Annual Channel Release 20H2 to display the status.  If the workstation is 
ready, pressing the "Start Update" will initiate the update.
    c.  For remote workstations being used to support telework, users must 
first connect to the VPN and wait at least 10 minutes before refreshing the 
Seat Health data and beginning the update through the Seat Health Check app.
    d.  Detailed user information guides are available at 
https://www.homeport.navy.mil/management/windows10/.

4.  Some older workstations cannot support v20H2.  Commanders are advised to 
ensure critical seats are refreshed first to minimize impact caused by 
quarantine when v1909 goes end of life this summer.
    a.  For workstations having problems receiving updates required to allow 
the upgrade to v20H2, users should contact the NMCI helpdesk and open a 
trouble ticket, at 866-THE-NMCI (866-843-6624) or through the NMCI Homeport 
at https://www.homeport.navy.mil/home/.
    b.  Refreshed NMCI workstations that are no longer required must be 
returned by the Contract Technical Representative to prevent the Navy from 
funding assets no longer in active use and to further reduce cybersecurity 
risk.

5.  Released by VADM Jeffrey E. Trussler, Deputy Chief of Naval Operations 
for Information Warfare, OPNAV N2N6.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//

