UNCLASSIFIED//

ROUTINE

R 231350Z JUN 21 MID200000961025U

FM CNO WASHINGTON DC

TO NAVADMIN

INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC

BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 136/21

PASS TO OFFICE CODES:
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//

MSGID/NAVADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/JUN//

SUBJ/2021 CAPTAIN JOY BRIGHT HANCOCK AND MASTER CHIEF ANNA DER- VARTANIAN 
LEADERSHIP AWARDS ANNOUNCEMENT//

REF/A/MSG/CNO WASHINGTON DC/R 291835Z DEC 20//

AMPN/REF A IS NAVADMIN 341/20, NOMINATIONS FOR 2021 CAPTAIN JOY BRIGHT 
HANCOCK AND MASTER CHIEF ANNA DER-VARTANIAN LEADERSHIP AWARDS.//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN announces the 2021 recipients of the Captain Joy 
Bright Hancock and Master Chief Anna Der-Vartanian Leadership Awards.  
Congratulations to the following award recipients who were selected for their 
inspirational leadership, both on and off-duty:
    a.  Senior Officer:  CAPT Andrea C. Petrovanie-Green, Navy Medicine 
Readiness and Training Command, Pearl Harbor;
    b.  Junior Officer:  LT Jayme L. Warren, United States Naval Academy;
    c.  LDO/CWO:  LT Courtney L. Burrows, Patrol Squadron FIVE;
    d.  Senior Enlisted:  YNCM (EXW/SW/AW) Tonia M. Williams, Naval Special 
Warfare Development Group;
    e.  Junior Enlisted:  YNS1(SS/AW/FMF)Suraya N. Mattocks, Submarine Group 
EIGHT Representative Northwood, UK.

2.  Established in 1987, the Captain Joy Bright Hancock and Master Chief Anna 
Der-Vartanian Leadership Awards are presented annually to honor the visionary 
leadership of Navy service members whose ideals and dedication foster an 
inclusive culture by furthering the integration of women into the Navy.

3.  Candidates were nominated by their Commanding Officers and Officers-in-
Charge with endorsements from their Immediate Superior in Command.  The 2021 
winners were then selected from over 130 high- caliber nominations by 
convening boards composed of OPNAV senior leaders.  For commands desiring 
feedback on nominations submitted this year or those seeking guidance 
regarding future nominations, contact the POC listed below. I will recognize 
the winners on MyNavyHR due to Joint Women Leadership Symposium (JWLS) 
cancelling in-person for 2021.

4.  My point of contact for this is CTICS Nazma B. Rahman, OPNAV N17, who can 
be reached by e-mail at nazma.b.rahman2(at)navy.mil.

5.  My heartiest congratulations to these deserving award winners and 
nominees!  I would like to extend my gratitude for your visionary and 
inspirational leadership, which helps to shape our future and achieve the 
maximum possible performance of our Navy Team.  Bravo Zulu!

6.  Released by Vice Admiral John B. Nowell, Jr, N1.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//

