UNCLASSIFIED// 
 
ROUTINE 
 
R 211709Z AUG 20 MID200000002992U 
 
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC 
 
TO NAVADMIN 
 
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC 
 
BT 
UNCLAS 

NAVADMIN 235/20 

PASS TO OFFICE CODES: 
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//DNS// 
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//DNS// 
 
MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/DNS/AUG// 
 
SUBJ/ANNOUNCEMENT OF APPROVAL OF HUMANITARIAN SERVICE MEDAL (HSM) AND ARMED 
FORCES SERVICE MEDAL (AFSM) FOR DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE CORONAVIRUS (COVID 19) 
OPERATIONS AND ACTIVITIES// 
 
REF/A/DOC/UNSECDEF (P&R)/30JUN2020// 
 
REF/B/DOC/DOD/20JUN19// 
 
REF/C/DOC/SECNAV/16AUG2019// 
 
NARR/ REF A ANNOUNCES APPROVAL OF THE HSM AND AFSM FOR DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE 
CORONAVIRUS (COVID-19) OPERATIONS AND ACTIVITIES. REF B IS DOD 1348.33M VOL2, 
SECDEF MANUAL OF MILITARY DECORATIONS AND AWARDS. REF C IS SECNAV M-1650.1, 
NAVY AND MARINE AWARDS MANUAL..// 
 
RMKS/1.  As required by reference (a), the following guidance is provided for 
award of the HSM and AFSM. 
 
2.  HSM Eligibility Criteria: 
    a.  Per references (b) and (c), the HSM is an individual service medal 
awarded to members who, after 1 April 1975 distinguished themselves as 
individuals or members of U.S. military unit by meritorious, direct non-
routine participation in a significant military act or operation of a 
humanitarian nature. 
    b.  The recipient must meet ALL of the following criteria to be eligible 
for the HSM: 
        (1) Have been physically present, and 
        (2) Directly participated in, and influenced CoronaVirus Disease 2019 
(COVID-19) operations or activities that had a direct and immediate on-site 
effect on humanitarian assistance and relief efforts for at least one day. 
    c.  The HSM is not authorized for any humanitarian relief missions 
incident to operations for which another campaign, expeditionary, or service 
medal is already authorized. 
    d.  The HSM is intended for front-line Service Members, such as 
healthcare facilities, doctors, nurses, scientists, remote food distribution 
or healthcare sites, and Service Members preparing or serving food, 
transporting COVID-19 patients, or providing COVID-19 Security.  The 
following types of military acts qualify for award of the HSM: 
        The deployment of the USNS COMFORT and USNS MERCY. 
        Medical personnel that actively treated COVID-19 patients. 
        Medical personnel that provided COVID-19 testing. 
        Units that assisted in constructing a field hospital. 
    e.  For members who perform COVID-19 volunteer service, the appropriate 
recognition is the Military Outstanding Volunteer Service Medal as long as 
all criterion has been met. 
 
3.  AFSM Eligibility Criteria: 
    a.  Per references (b) and (c), the AFSM is a deployed service medal 
awarded to members who, after 1 June 1992 participate or have participated, 
as members of U.S. military units, in a designated U.S. military operation 
deemed to be a significant activity and encountered no foreign armed 
opposition or imminent hostile action. 
    b.  For COVID-19, the deployment requirement is waived. 
    c.  To be eligible for the AFSM, Service Members must have been re-
assigned from their normal duties to primarily perform duties related to 
COVID-19 operations or activities for at least 30 days (consecutive or non-
consecutive).  In addition, award of the AFSM is authorized for one day of 
qualifying service, if that service resulted in the member contracting COVID-
19. 
    d.  This medal is intended for members providing direct support.  The 
following types of military acts qualify for award of the AFSM: 
        Members who may have assisted in ensuring critical supplies were 
delivered where needed. 
        Member of a COVID Task Force or Operations Center. 
 
4.  Area of Eligibility and period of award: 
    a.  There are no designated areas of eligibility for the HSM and AFSM for 
COVID-19.  Inclusive dates are January 31, 2020 to a future to be determined 
termination date. 
    b.  Under no circumstances will a member receive both the HSM and AFSM 
based on the same activities, deployment and/or period of service. 
 
5.  Awarding Authority: 
    a.  Active/Reserve personnel.  Determination for personnel is delegated 
to the command level of O-6/civilian equivalent or above.  Awarding 
authorities must confirm individual participation by verifying assignment via 
orders, evaluations/fitness reports, or other official documentation which 
verifies participation in the COVID-19 relief actions.  Once verified, 
commands should submit the appropriate service record documentation via their 
personnel office. 
    b.  Navy veterans.  Navy personnel honorably discharged or retired before 
announced approval of these awards and who meet the criterion above may 
submit a written request for consideration for award of the HSM or 
AFSM.  Written request must indicate the qualifying unit and dates assigned, 
a copy of the Service Members unredacted DD-214, and any supporting 
documentation (evaluation, fitness report, TAD or PCS orders) showing serving 
with the qualifying unit or individual participation.  Requests may be mailed 
to: Navy Personnel Command (PERS 312), 5720 Integrity Drive, Millington, TN 
38055. 
    c.  Only one award of the HSM and AFSM may be received for participation 
in the COVID-19 relief operations. 
 
6.  Participating Units and Personnel: 
    a.  As required by reference (c), Commanding Officers whose units meet 
the criteria for award of the HSM or AFSM must submit a completed OPNAV Form 
1650/14 which should include a list of qualified personnel via 
cno_awards.fct@navy.mil.  These units will be entered into the awards 
database.  This is to facilitate documentation only and does not imply unit-
wide approval.  Individual service record documentation continues to be a 
command responsibility. 
    b.  Navy personnel attached to DoD, Joint or other non-Navy commands who 
meet the criteria outlined above should have their DoD or Joint command 
confirm eligibility and submit the appropriate service record documentation. 
 
7.  Released by Andrew S. Haeuptle, Director, Navy Staff.// 
 
BT 
#0001 
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
