UNCLASSIFIED//

ROUTINE

R 021507Z JUL 20 MID110000801499U

FM CNO WASHINGTON DC

TO NAVADMIN

INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC

BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 189/20

PASS TO OFFICE CODES:
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//

MSGID/NAVADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/CNO/JUN//

SUBJ/NAVY MITIGATION MEASURES IN RESPONSE TO CORONAVIRUS OUTBREAK UPDATE 6//

REF/A/NAVADMIN/OPNAV/122138ZJUN20//
REF/B/MEMO/OSD/22MAY20//
REF/C/ALNAV/SECNAV/121305ZJUN20//
REF/D/MEMO/SECNAV/12JUN2020//
REF/E/MEMO/OSD/7FEB2020//
REF/F/MEMO/OSD/25FEB2020//
REF/G/MEMO/OSD/11MAR2020//
REF/H/MEMO/OSD/8APR2020//
REF/I/MEMO/OSD/13APR2020//
REF/J/ALNAV/SECNAV/231933ZMAR20//
REF/K/ALNAVRESFOR/COMNAVRESFOR/162051ZAPR20//
REF/L/ALNAVRESFOR/COMNAVRESFOR/212022ZMAY20//
REF/M/MEMO/OSD/19MAY20//
REF/N/NAVADMIN/OPNAV/201856ZMAY20//
REF/O/DOC/WHITE HOUSE/16APR2020//
REF/P/NAVADMIN/OPNAV/062057ZMAY20//
REF/Q/NAVADMIN/OPNAV/172057ZJUN20//
REF/R/MEMO/OSD/26MAY20//
REF/S/MEMO/OSD/29JUN20//
REF/T/MEMO/ASN M&RA/30JUN2020//

NARR/REF A IS NAVADMIN 168/20, NAVY MITIGATION MEASURES IN RESPONSE TO 
CORONAVIRUS OUTBREAK UPDATE 5.  
REF B IS SECRETARY OF DEFENSE (SECDEF) MEMO ON TRANSITION TO CONDITIONS-BASED 
PHASED APPROACH TO CORONAVIRUS DISEASE 2019 PERSONNEL MOVEMENT AND TRAVEL 
RESTRICTIONS.  
REF C IS ALNAV 067/20, CANCELLATION OF ALNAV 044/20 AND ALNAV 049/20.  
REF D IS SECRETARY OF THE NAVY (SECNAV) MEMO ON DEPARTMENT OF THE NAVY 
IMPLEMENTATION OF TRANSITION TO CONDITIONS-BASED APPROACH TO CORONAVIRUS 
DISEASE 2019 PERSONNEL MOVEMENT AND TRAVEL RESTRICTIONS.  
REF E IS UNDERSECRETARY OF DEFENSE (PERSONNEL AND READINESS
(USD(PR)) FORCE HEALTH PROTECTION GUIDANCE (FHPG) (SUPPLEMENT 1).  
REF F IS USD(PR) FHPG (SUPPLEMENT 2).
REF G IS USD(PR) FHPG (SUPPLEMENT 4).  
REF H IS USD(PR) FHPG (SUPPLEMENT 7).  
REF I IS USD(PR) FHPG (SUPPLEMENT 8).  
REF J IS ALNAV 029/20, STATE AND LOCAL SHELTER-IN- PLACE ORDERS IMPACT ON DON 
OPERATIONS.  
REF K IS ALNAVRESFOR 011/20, NAVY RESERVE FORCE POLICY UPDATE FOR COVID-19.  
REF L IS ALNAVRESFOR 012/20, NAVY RESERVE FORCE POLICY UPDATE FOR COVID-19 
UPDATE 2.  
REF M IS SECDEF MEMO ON GUIDANCE FOR COMMANDERS ON RISK-BASED CHANGING OF 
HEALTH PROTECTION CONDITION LEVELS DURING THE CORONAVIRUS DISEASE 2019 
PANDEMIC.  
REF N IS NAVADMIN 147/20, GUIDANCE TO COMMANDERS ON ADJUSTING HEALTH 
PROTECTION CONDITIONS AND BASE SERVICES.  
REF O ARE WHITE HOUSE GUIDELINES OPENING UP AMERICA AGAIN (PDF SLIDES).  
REF P IS NAVADMIN 136/20, CNO MESSAGE TO THE FLEET.  
REF Q IS NAVADMIN 173/20, U.S. NAVY COVID-19 STANDARDIZED OPERATIONAL 
GUIDANCE VERSION 2.0.  
REF R IS USD(PR) FHPG (SUPPLEMENT 9).  
REF S IS SECDEF MEMO ON EXEMPTION OF AUTHORIZED LEAVE FOR DEPARTMENT OF 
DEFENSE SERVICE MEMBERS FROM CORONAVIRUS DISEASE 2019 PERSONNEL MOVEMENT AND 
TRAVEL RESTRICTIONS.  
REF T IS ASSISTANT SECRETARY OF THE NAVY (MANPOWER AND RESERVE AFFAIRS) (ASN 
M&RA) MEMO ON DEPARTMENT OF THE NAVY EXEMPTION OF AUTHORIZED LEAVE FOR 
SERVICE MEMBERS FROM CORONAVIRUS DISEASE 2019 PERSONNEL MOVEMENT AND TRAVEL 
RESTRICTIONS.// 
POC/RADM JEFFREY JABLON/OPNAV N13/703-604- 5040/JEFFREY.JABLON(AT)NAVY.MIL//

RMKS/1.  Based on recent revisions to Department of Defense (DoD) and 
Department of the Navy (DoN) guidance regarding travel restrictions 
(references (s) and (t)), leave and liberty outside of the local area is now 
exempted from the travel restrictions listed in reference (b), the DoD 
framework on transitioning to a conditions-based, phased approach to 
personnel movement and travel.  This NAVADMIN cancels reference (a), removes 
personal leave and liberty outside of the local area as restricted travel, 
and in line with references (b) through (d) transitions the stop movement 
approach to domestic and overseas personnel travel to a conditions- based and 
phased approach to lifting of travel restrictions.  All other guidance from 
reference (b) remains in effect until further notice.  All commands shall 
continue to take specific actions to mitigate the spread of COVID-19 
worldwide and Department of the Navy (DON) Navy Service Members will adhere 
to Force Health Protection Guidance (FHPG), references (e) through (i) and 
(r).  This NAVADMIN does not cancel or supersede Combatant Commander (CCDR) 
guidance for forces assigned or allocated to that Combatant Command (CCMD) or 
within that CCMD Area of Responsibility (AOR).  This NAVADMIN is effective 
immediately and reissues guidance for the Navy that will remain in effect 
until further notice.

2.  Stop Movement.  A stop movement for all DON Navy Service Members and 
their dependents (if dependent travel is government-funded), both 
internationally and domestically, remains in effect unless the conditions 
listed in paragraph 4 are met (Transition to Condition- based Phased 
Approach).
    2.A.  Except as provided below, this stop movement applies to all 
official travel, including temporary duty (TDY) travel, permanent duty travel 
including Permanent Change of Station (PCS) travel, and travel related to 
Authorized Departures (AD) and Ordered Departures (OD) issued by the 
Department of State (DoS).  For DON civilian travel, DON will promulgate 
guidance separately in accordance with reference (d).  For personnel and 
units deploying to and from homeport (originating unit location for reserve 
personnel), follow the guidance of reference (q).
    2.B.  Stop Movement Exemptions.  The following circumstances are exempt 
from the stop movement travel restrictions:
          2.B.1.  Travel associated with uniformed personnel recruiting and 
accessions activities, to include accessions, basic training, advanced 
military individual training and follow-on travel to the first duty station.
          2.B.2.  Travel by patients (to include those on the Temporary 
Disability Retired List (TDRL)), as well as their authorized escorts and 
attendants, for purposes of medical treatment.  Travel by medical providers 
for the purposes of medical treatment for DoD personnel and their families is 
also authorized.
          2.B.3.  Travel for Global Force Management (GFM) activities 
(defined as deployments/redeployments ordered in the GFM Allocation Plan 
(GFMAP) and CCMD Assigned Force Demand Tasking, including Service internal 
rotations to support and TDY used to source ordered capabilities).  Such 
travel to execute Operations, Activities and Investments or Service-related 
training will be coordinated between the CCDR, the Joint Staff (JS) and the 
appropriate Military Department.  All GFM-scheduled deployments/redeployments 
of U.S. Navy vessels and embarked units and personnel are authorized, 
provided they have met the Restriction of Movement (ROM) guidance set forth 
in references (e), (q), (r) and any applicable subsequent guidance.
          2.B.4.  Travel authorized by the Commander, U.S.
Transportation Command (USTRANSCOM), to continue execution of the Joint 
Deployment and Distribution Enterprise as required to project and sustain the 
Joint Force globally.  This includes forces (aircrews, vessel crews and 
mission essential personnel) ordered on prepare-to-deploy orders alert 
status, air refueling, global patient movement, mortuary affairs support, 
inland surface, sea and air sustainment missions, support to other U.S. 
Agencies (as approved by the Secretary of Defense (SecDef)) and moves of 
personnel and equipment that support USTRANSCOM global posture requirements.
          2.B.5.  Travel by military personnel pending retirement or 
separation.  Specific to Navy Service Members, travel is authorized to take 
terminal leave.
          2.B.6.  Travel by those under authority of a Chief of Mission and 
authorized by that Chief of Mission.  Travel from locations where the DoS has 
issued an OD, and return travel from safe havens when the DoS has terminated 
an OD or AD.
          2.B.7.  Travel to and from Professional Military Education Programs 
(defined by Navy as in-resident graduate education including in-resident 
Joint Professional Military Education (JPME)).
          2.B.8.  In line with references (s) and (t), personal leave and 
liberty travel outside of the local area for Navy Service Members is exempt 
from COVID-19 related travel restrictions.
Approval authority for leave outside of the local area will be determined by 
the echelon 2 commander, but may be delegated by the echelon 2 commander to 
no lower than the unit CO, OIC or equivalent (Branch Head, Division Director, 
etc.).
                  2.B.8.a.  Commanders and supervisors will conduct a risk 
assessment of the health status and travel itinerary for Navy Service Members 
requesting leave or liberty outside the local area.
Navy Service Members should not travel if they display a fever or other 
symptoms consistent with COVID-19 or if they have had close contact with 
someone who has tested positive for COVID-19 within the past 14 days.  Navy 
Service Members will comply with any DoD, component, federal, state and local 
restrictions while in a leave/liberty status.
                  2.B.8.b.  Commanders and supervisors will follow the 
procedures in reference (g) for all Service Members traveling on leave.  
Commanders and supervisors will establish a means of communication with all 
Navy Service Members throughout the period of leave or liberty and post-
travel actions as well as prescribing actions (i.e., post-travel ROM, if 
applicable) for their particular circumstances.  Navy commanders and 
supervisors may be more restrictive based on local risk assessment in 
consultation with public health authorities.
                  2.B.8.c.  The MyNavy Portal Travel Tracker
(https://www.mnp.navy.mil/group/don-covid-19-travel-tracker) can be used to 
see the status of states, countries, territories and installations to assist 
with making risk informed decisions on approving leave and implementing the 
appropriate mitigation measures when individuals return from leave. For 
example, if a Sailor is approved to take leave to a red location, it may be 
appropriate for the sailor to ROM upon return based on potential exposure to
COVID-19 due to the locations high rate of COVID-19 documented cases. 
References (g) and (i) in particular provide guidance on when various risk 
mitigation measures, such as ROM, are appropriate.
    2.C.  Stop Movement Waivers.  Waivers to the stop movement travel 
restrictions may be granted in writing in cases where the travel is:  1) 
Determined to be mission-essential, 2) Necessary for humanitarian reasons or 
3) Warranted due to extreme hardship.  These waivers are to be executed on a 
case-by-case basis, must be determined to be in the best interest of the U.S. 
Government and shall be coordinated between the gaining and losing 
organizations.  Mission-essential travel refers to work that must be 
performed to ensure the continued operations of mission-essential functions, 
including positions that are deemed key and essential, as determined by the 
responsible DoD Component.  Further information on granting waivers is 
contained in paragraph 3.D.

3.  Stop Movement Policy.  This portion of the NAVADMIN applies to areas 
currently under a stop movement.  Paragraph 4 applies to the transition of 
areas out of stop movement status.  All personnel should follow federal, 
state and local (including host nation) direction, as well as direction from 
their chain of command, including observing *Stay at Home* orders if in 
effect, maximizing telework and practicing social distancing.  Reference (j) 
provides additional guidance on state and local executive orders and COVID-19 
response.
    3.A.  PCS
          3.A.1.  PCS orders from or to locations under a stop movement.  
Navy Service Members and their dependents under PCS orders will stop 
movement.  Execution of PCS orders requires a waiver in accordance with (IAW) 
paragraph 3.D.
          3.A.2.  A local PCS move may be executed without a waiver since it 
does not involve travel outside of the local area.  Same geographic location 
PCS moves will only be executed with due regard to the operational readiness 
of the commands involved.  Losing and gaining commands are encouraged to 
coordinate with placement coordinators and detailers in Navy Personnel 
Command (NPC) Career Management Pillar Branch (PERS-4) as required.  PERS-4 
shall adjudicate same geographic location PCS move decisions in situations 
where losing and gaining commands do not agree on an execution timeline.  
This adjudication may be delegated, but no lower than the O-6 Division 
Director level at PERS-4.
    3.B.  Other Official Travel (Meetings, Conferences, Site Visits, etc.).  
All other official travel by Navy Service Members from or to an area under a 
stop movement is prohibited and will require a waiver IAW paragraph 3.D.  
Navy Reserve personnel will follow guidance promulgated by the Chief of Navy 
Reserve (CNR) in references (k) and (l).
    3.C.  Travel for Official Training.
          3.C.1.  Navy Service Members traveling to attend formal training 
from or to an area under a stop movement will require a waiver IAW paragraph 
3.D. prior to travel, advance coordination with the training command and will 
comply with reference (q) and any Navy Component Commander (NCC) guidance 
concerning pre- and post-travel medical screening and reception procedures, 
to include ROM if applicable.
          3.C.2.  Navy Service Members (not exempted by para 2.B.1.) 
currently executing PCS or TDY orders and attending training and/or schools 
will complete their current training and/or school.  Those on TDY orders are 
directed to remain in contact with the command that issued the orders for 
returning instructions/guidance.  Navy Service Members executing PCS orders 
should expect to take one of the following actions:  (1) return to their 
previous Permanent Duty Station (PDS), (2) remain at the school/training site 
if prudent for health protection, (3) if the next school/training is in the 
same location and the course is still being offered, continue training.
Reevaluate after school/training completion or (4) proceed to the next 
intermediate stop or ultimate PDS.  Decisions will be based on force health 
protection considerations.  Throughout the process, Navy Service Members 
should consult with their affected command (current, losing and future) as 
well as their detailer.
          3.C.3.  Naval Education and Training Command (NETC) Learning 
Centers will continue to support Fleet mission-essential training to the 
maximum extent possible while minimizing risk to force and balancing risk to 
mission, strictly abiding by Centers for Disease Control (CDC), DoD and 
Bureau of Medicine and Surgery (BUMED) guidance in the classroom/trainer 
environment.  There must be a two-factor approach for all training when 
determining whether to convene a course/training.  First, a deliberate 
evaluation should be conducted on whether the course/training should be 
convened based on its measurable impact to Force Generation (Fg) and Force 
Employment (Fe).  Second, a deliberate evaluation should be conducted as to 
whether the course/training can be conducted while still adhering to current 
FHPG.  For all accession level courses, ROM shall be required before 
commencing training unless students arrive via bubble-to-bubble/protected 
travel.  For all high- risk/intensity training courses, and courses where 
CDC, DoD, and BUMED guidance cannot be adhered to (physical nature of 
training, team simulators, firefighting/damage control trainers, etc.), ROM 
shall be required before commencing training unless students are from the 
local area or arrive via bubble-to-bubble travel.  For all other courses, ROM 
will be at the discretion of the schoolhouse COs based on risk to force.  
Fleet units shall coordinate ROM requirements with the schoolhouse before 
permitting student travel.  Type Commanders (TYCOMS) should validate each 
individual training requirements mission-essentiality in light of the risk to 
force, and then coordinate with NETC to implement risk mitigations (i.e., 
reduced throughput, extra course convenings, ROM, etc.).
    3.D.  Stop Movement Waivers.
          3.D.1.  All travel orders will be annotated stating the waivers 
herein being granted.  Waivers granted prior to the date time group of this 
NAVADMIN under reference (a) are still valid.
          3.D.2.  COs and OICs may request a waiver via their chain of 
command to paragraphs 3.A. through 3.C.  Approval authority for waivers 
belongs to the CCDR if the individual is assigned or allocated to a CCMD, the 
Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff (CJCS) if the individual is assigned to 
the JS, the DoD Chief Management Officer (DoD CMO) for personnel in the 
Office of the Secretary of Defense (OSD), Defense Agencies, DoD Field 
Activities (and any other DoD entities not listed in this paragraph) and 
finally to the Secretary of the Navy (SECNAV) for personnel under his 
jurisdiction.  In line with reference (d), SECNAV has delegated this 
authority to the Chief of Naval Operations (CNO).
                  3.D.2.a.  PERS-4 is delegated authority to approve or deny 
stop movement waivers for Navy Service Member PCS travel in paragraphs 3.A. 
and 3.C.2.  Approvals of waiver requests shall be made via message traffic to 
all concerned and will specify whether dependents are authorized to accompany 
the Navy Service Member.  Detaching commander endorsement is required up 
through the first Flag Officer or the Senior Executive Service (SES) or 
equivalent with authority to approve waivers in line with paragraph 3.D.2.b.
NCCs will be notified of all PCS movements into and out of their area of 
responsibility.  Upon receipt of an approved waiver, Transaction Service 
Center or Personnel Support Detachment personnel/offices will process the 
Navy Service Member for transfer to the gaining command.  Send all waiver 
requests to pers451(at)navy.mil with the subject line PCS WAIVER REQUEST.
Waiver request formats are posted on MyNavy Portal (MNP).  Navy Service 
Members who are granted a waiver will receive guidance from NPC concerning 
NCC pre- and post-travel medical screening and reception procedures to 
include ROM.
                  3.D.2.b.  Authority to approve or deny stop movement 
waivers for Navy Service Members in the case of:  (1) official travel in 
paragraph 3.B., and (2) official training, not associated with a PCS, in 
paragraph 3.C. is delegated to the echelon 2 commander.  The echelon 2 
commander may further delegate waiver authority, but no lower than the first 
Flag Officer or SES or equivalent in the chain of command of the Service 
Member.  Those who are granted a waiver will comply with the NCC guidance 
concerning pre- and post-travel screening and reception procedures.
    3.E.  Holding Conferences (and other similar events involving gatherings 
of personnel).  All conferences (and other similar events) shall be held 
virtually until an area transitions out of stop movement status as detailed 
in paragraph 4.  Upon designation as an unrestricted travel location, the 
decision to hold conferences (and other similar events) in person should be 
based on local Health Protection Conditions (HPCON) and if the conference 
(and other similar events) is determined to be permissible, all attendees 
should adhere to applicable FHPG.
    3.F.  References (m) and (n) contain specific requirements and 
considerations for each HPCON.  Considerations include the
following:  During HPCON C and above, Navy Service Members avoid social 
settings of 10 or more people that do not allow for appropriate social 
distancing.  During HPCON B, larger gatherings may occur but practice social 
distancing, and when physical distancing is not possible, use precautionary 
measures (like face coverings).  During HPCON A, all should consider 
minimizing time spent in crowded environments.  During HPCON 0, unrestricted 
activities may resume.  Naval component and region commanders may be more or 
less stringent than surrounding community requirements based on mission and 
risk considerations.

4.  Transition to Condition-based Phased Approach.
    4.A.  Transition to a conditions-based, phased approach to personnel 
movement and travel applies to all official travel, including TDY travel, 
permanent duty travel including PCS travel and travel related to ADs and ODs 
issued by DoS.  For DON civilian travel, DON will promulgate guidance 
separately in line with reference (d).  Conditions to resume unrestricted 
travel rest on two overarching Factors:  (1) state and/or regional (to 
include host nation) criteria and (2) installation-level criteria based on 
conditions in and surrounding DoD installations, facilities and locations.  
Factors (1) and (2) are detailed in reference (b).  Additionally, Factor (1) 
and (2) assessments can be nested with existing installation gating criteria 
assessments in line with references (m) and (n).
    4.B.  Advana is the primary platform the Under Secretary of Defense for 
Personnel and Readiness (USD(PR)) will be using to track implementation of a 
conditions-based, phased approach to personnel movement and travel.  The 
Advana COVID-19 modeling platform is used to accurately develop a COVID-19 
common operational picture and dashboard to better enable data-informed 
decision making.  It is maintained by DoD and includes live updates on cases, 
testing capacity, bed, personnel, supply and logistics.  Additionally, it 
will be used to show Factor (1) and (2) assessments in a green (yes) or red 
(no) status.  An extract of the Advana information required for 
implementation of this NAVADMIN will be displayed for Navy use via MyNavy 
Portal at https://www.mnp.navy.mil/group/don-covid-19-
travel-tracker.
    4.C.  U.S. States and Territories, and Host Nations (Factor 1).
Using reference (o) as a baseline, along with data and guidance from the 
Department of Health and Human Services and the CDC and inputs from the 
military services and CCMDs, the USD(PR) will continuously assess each U.S. 
state, district, or territory and nations that host greater than 1,000 
permanently assigned DoD personnel, for three criteria:  (1) removal of 
shelter-in-place orders or other travel restrictions, (2) 14-day downward 
trajectory of flu-like and COVID- 19-like symptoms and (3) 14-day downward 
trajectory of new COVID-19 cases or positive tests.  Any state, district, 
territory, or host nation that meets all three criteria shall be considered 
to permit movement to/from these areas.  Once a U.S. state or territory or 
country meets the Factors described indicating criteria have been met to 
resume unrestricted travel, the USD(PR) will publish the change in status and 
present the information in Advana. In order for Navy Service Members to 
execute the direction of this NAVADMIN, an extract of that information is 
posted via MyNavy Portal at https://www.mnp.navy.mil/group/don-covid-19-
travel-tracker and will be updated weekly.  Any subsequent significant change 
in Factors due to temporary localized breakouts will be assessed for travel 
restrictions being reinstated.
    4.D.  DoD Installations, Facilities and Locations (Factor 2).
As delegated to the CNO by reference (d) and further delegated by this 
NAVADMIN, the applicable NCC for Navy installations, as well as other 
military departments, CCDRs, and the DoD CMO for non-Navy installations, will 
continuously assess each DoD installation, facility or location under their 
purview for the feasibility of lifting travel restrictions.  There are four 
Factors that will be reported in order to make this assessment:  (1) removal 
of local travel restrictions (Commander, Navy Installations Command (CNIC 
Lead)), (2) availability of essential services (e.g., schools, childcare, 
moving services) (CNIC Lead), (3) quality control/assurance capability for 
household goods packing and moving (Naval Supply Systems Command (NAVSUP) 
Lead reporting to CNIC for inclusion in weekly report as described below) and 
(4) favorable HPCON (below HPCON C) as determined by references (m) and (n) 
(CNIC Lead).  Assessments of this criteria will include consultation with the 
other Services who have installations in the local surrounding area and will 
take into account the areas where installation personnel reside.  
Specifically, installations/facilities within a 50-mile commuting distance 
will coordinate their assessments and plans.  Any Navy installation, 
facility, or location that meets all of the criteria above, as reported by 
CNIC, will be assessed by the applicable NCC to determine unrestricted 
movement to or from these locations.  The above criteria and whether or not 
an installation is restricted for travel will then be reported by CNIC to the 
DoD COVID-19 Task Force (with an information copy to the Assistant Secretary 
of the Navy (Manpower and Reserve Affairs) (ASN M and RA) staff on a weekly 
basis (via the Navy Operations Center (NOC)), using a pre-formatted 
spreadsheet provided by the DoD COVID-19 Task Force.  In order to execute the 
direction of this NAVADMIN, an extract of that information is posted via 
MyNavy Portal at https://www.mnp.navy.mil/group/don-covid-19-travel-tracker.
    4.E.  Assessment Process.  Unrestricted travel activities may resume 
between installations when the criteria for states, territories, and host 
nations are met as published for both the gaining and losing U.S. State or 
territory or host nation, and subject to installation conditions as 
determined by the DoD CMO, applicable NCC (as detailed above), or the CCDRs.
          4.E.1.  Considerations for Unrestricted Travel.  Though travel may 
be approved as unrestricted based on the gaining and losing location both 
reflected as green on Factor 1 and Factor 2, risk of COVID-19 exposure may 
still exist during transit.  COs and OICs shall review travel plans with 
Service Members to ensure appropriate FHP measures are implemented, including 
ROM if warranted.  This includes considering Factors such as airport 
connections for air travel, rest stops for travel by vehicle, and 
leave/liberty enroute.  Gaining COs (including for intermediate stops (I-
stops)) shall evaluate the manner and location of travel for incoming Sailors 
and determine the necessity of ROM for each individual.  Coordination with 
losing command, training command enroute (if applicable) and gaining command 
is required to determine if ROM requirements are necessary.  Commands and 
individual Service Members shall remain vigilant and implement reasonable 
measures to reduce risk of exposure and infection where appropriate.  
Reference (q) contains authoritative guidance for all personnel and units 
deploying to and from homeport (originating unit location for reserve 
personnel).
          4.E.2.  PCS.  At least 30 days prior to Service Members executing 
PCS orders, the losing command shall check the status of losing and gaining 
locations in MyNavy Portal at https://www.mnp.navy.mil/group/don-covid-19-
travel-tracker.  If both gaining and losing locations are *green* on Factor 1 
and Factor 2, no waiver is required and normal PCS procedures apply.  If 
either gaining or losing locations are not *green* on Factor 1 and Factor 2, 
then the procedures in paragraph 3 (Stop Movement) apply and the losing 
command should contact the PERS-4 Placement Officer or Placement Coordinator  
to determine whether an orders modification (ORDMOD) or waiver is more 
appropriate.
          4.E.3.  Other Official Travel (Meetings, Conferences, Site Visits, 
etc.).  Prior to issuing a set of TDY orders, COs or OICs shall review MyNavy 
Portal at https://www.mnp.navy.mil/group/don-covid-19-travel-tracker.  If 
both the gaining and losing locations are *green* on Factor 1 and Factor 2, 
no waiver is required and normal TDY procedures apply.  If either the gaining 
or losing locations are not green on Factor 1 and Factor 2, then the 
procedures in paragraph 3 apply.
          4.E.4.  Travel for Official Training.  COs or OICs (for training 
not associated with a set of PCS orders) or Training Command COs or OICs (for 
training associated with a set of PCS orders) shall check the status of a 
training location, I-stop or ultimate duty location via MyNavy Portal at 
https://www.mnp.navy.mil/group/don-covid-19-travel-tracker before allowing a 
Navy Service Member to execute travel.  If the gaining, I-stop (if 
applicable), and losing locations are *green* on Factor 1 and Factor 2, no 
waiver is required and normal TDY or PCS procedures apply.  If either the 
gaining or losing locations are not *green* on Factor 1 and Factor 2, then 
the procedures in paragraph 3 apply.
          4.E.5.  Locations Not in Advana (as reflected on MyNavy Portal).  
For PCS or TDY considered in paragraphs 4.E.2. through

4.E.4., if a location is not listed in Advana (as reflected on MyNavy 
Portal), the decision to allow unrestricted travel should be made based on 
the closest DoD installation, facility or location and their Factor 2 and 
applicable Factor 1 status.  If there is not a DoD installation, facility, or 
location within a reasonable distance (generally 50 miles), the decision to 
allow unrestricted travel should be made based on the Factor 1 status of the 
U.S. State or territory or host nation.
          4.E.6.  Changes in Status.  As assessments will occur weekly, a 
change in status may occur due to localized spikes in COVID-19 cases.  If a 
Service Member was approved for travel (Factor 1  green/Factor 2  green) and 
either one or both locations then turn red prior to departure/return, travel 
would then require a waiver (in line with paragraph 3.D. of this NAVADMIN on 
stop movement waivers) or ORDMOD for PCS travel.  For PCS travel, the losing 
command should contact the PERS-4 Placement Officer or Placement Coordinator 
to determine whether a waiver or ORDMOD is more appropriate.

5.  Points of Contact.
    5.A.  Sailor Support.  Service Members with questions regarding this 
NAVADMIN should contact the MyNavy Career Center (1-833-330-6622) or e-mail 
askmncc(at)navy.mil.
    5.B.  Medical Questions.  BUMED Watch:  703-681-1087/1125 or NIPR e-mail:  
usn.ncr.bumedfchva.list.bumed---2019-ncov-response-cell(AT)mail.mil.

6.  This conditions-based, phased approach prioritizes the safety and 
security of our personnel, their families and our communities, while 
balancing unit rotational deployments, the need to advance Navy Service 
Member career opportunities and other imperatives.  COs and OICs must 
continuously review current HPCON, FHPG and subsequent releases when making 
risk informed decisions such as holding in- person conferences or determining 
the maximum size of gatherings.  References (n), (p) and (q) are particularly 
valuable resources containing much of what we have learned during this COVID-
19 response.  Moving forward, it is incumbent upon COs and OICs to balance 
risk to mission and risk to force to ensure we, as a Navy, can continue to 
meet our mission while simultaneously preventing the spread of COVID-19 
within the Navy, and the communities we live in, to the greatest extent 
possible.  This requires not only leadership at every level, but also 
personal responsibility to continue to follow the tenets that have been 
proven time and again to reduce the spread  social distancing, frequent hand-
washing and use of face coverings.  Avoiding complacency on these simple, 
low-tech, solutions will ensure continued success on Mission One  the 
operational readiness of the Navy today so that we maintain what our nation 
expects  a ready Navy  ready to fight today  and our commitment to the 
training, maintenance and modernization that will also ensure a Navy ready 
for tomorrow.

7.  Released by Vice Admiral John B. Nowell, Jr, N1.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//

