CLASSIFICATION: UNCLASSIFIED

ROUTINE

R 271536Z MAY 22 MID200001752845U

FM CNO WASHINGTON DC

TO NAVADMIN

INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC

BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 124/22

PASS TO OFFICE CODES:
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/MAY//

SUBJ/NAVY UNIFORM AND GROOMING POLICY UPDATE//

REF/A/DOC/COMNAVPERSCOM/23AUG21//

AMPN/REF A IS NAVPERS 15665J, U.S. NAVY UNIFORM REGULATIONS.//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN announces an update to several uniform and grooming 
policies.  Navy uniform policy updates directly support Sailor 2025 
objectives to attract and retain the very best Sailors by finding greater 
flexibility in our policies and practices, including uniforms.

2.  Navy Uniform Regulations apply to all Sailors equally, regardless of 
their rank, grade, ethnicity, position held or community assigned.  Any 
difference between male and female grooming policies recognizes the 
differences between the genders.  Navy uniform policy updates are the result 
of Fleet feedback, uniform working group discussions, command sponsored 
requests and direction from Navy leadership.

3.  The following uniform and grooming policy changes are effective as 
stated:
    a.  Female Hosiery.  Effective immediately, wearing hosiery with slacks 
or skirts is optional vice mandatory for female Sailors when wearing pumps or 
flats footwear.  When hosiery is not worn, shoe liners or no-show socks are 
required to be worn for hygienic purposes and to avoid abrasions or blisters 
caused by direct contact and rubbing between the foot and shoe.
    b.  Female Officer/Chief Petty Officer (CPO) Summer White Uniform.  
Effective immediately, the female officer/CPO summer white uniform belted 
slacks are re-designated as a basic component of both summer white and 
service dress white uniforms.  This policy change facilitates use of the same 
slacks for either uniform.
    c.  Female Officer/CPO Service Dress White Uniform.  Effective 
immediately, the beltless dress white slacks worn with the female officer/CPO 
Service Dress white uniform is re-designated as an optional vice mandatory 
component for purchase and wear.
    d.  Rank Insignia Worn on Rank Tabs.  Effective 1 October 2022, all Navy 
Service Members will wear the black cold weather parka (CWP) rank insignia on 
all uniform components with rank tabs.  Uniform components requiring the 
black rank insignia in addition to the CWP include the Navy working uniform 
(NWU) type II and III shirts and parkas, black fleece liner and brown fleece 
liner.  Matching pattern NWU type II/III rank insignia will only be worn on 
the NWU type II/III during tactical training and operations as designated by 
the applicable commanding officer.
    e.  Retired Male Sailor Uniform Grooming Standards.  Effective 
immediately, retired male Sailors are authorized to have facial hair
(beard) when wearing Navy uniforms during authorized ceremonial events.  
Facial hair must be neatly groomed and be in keeping with a professional 
appearance.
    f.  NWU Type III Maternity Top.  Redesign of the NWU type III maternity 
top is in progress to include the ability to add shoulder patches to align 
with the design of standard NWU shirt.  The availability of the redesigned 
maternity top will be announced in a future NAVADMIN.

4.  Navy Uniform Regulations are continuously reviewed for policy 
applicability, accuracy, clarity and comprehension.  Feedback and 
recommendations regarding uniform policy, uniform components and uniform 
availability are welcomed and can be provided via MyNavy portal at 
https://www.mnp.navy.mil/, select *Professional Resources*, *U.S. Navy 
Uniforms* and *Ask The Chiefs.*  Feedback can also be provided via the MyNavy 
UNIFORMS App.

5.  Questions regarding this NAVADMIN should be addressed to Mr.
Robert B. Carroll, Navy Uniform Matters and Emerging Issues Branch (OPNAV 
N13X), robert.b.carroll3.civ(at)us.navy.mil, ETCM(SW/AW/EXW) Richard Baumert, 
Deputy Branch Head, richard.a.baumert2.mil(at)us.navy.mil, or ETC(SW) Ryan P. 
Cameron, ryan.p.cameron.mil(at)us.navy.mil.

6.  Retain this NAVADMIN until policy changes are incorporated in Navy 
Uniform Regulations, superseded or canceled, whichever occurs first.

7.  Released by Vice Admiral John B. Nowell, Jr, N1.//

BT
#0001
NNNN

CLASSIFICATION: UNCLASSIFIED

