UNCLASSIFIED//

ROUTINE

R 071853Z APR 20 MID110000560566U

FM CNO WASHINGTON DC

TO NAVADMIN

INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC

BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 101/20

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N4/APR//

SUBJ/EXCEPTION TO POLICY FOR SMALL ARMS TRAINING AND QUALIFICATION CRITERIA 
AND NAVY SECURITY FORCES ANNUAL SUSTAINMENT TRAINING REQUIREMENTS//

REF/A/DOC/OPNAV/12AUG2009//

REF/B/DOC/SECNAV/31JAN2013//

REF/C/DOC/OPNAV/28JAN2009//

REF/D/DOC/SECNAV/20MAY2019//

REF/E/DOC/OPNAV/14JUN2019/NOTAL//

REF/F/DOC/DOD/18NOV2016//

NARR//REF A IS OPNAVINST 3591.1F, SMALL ARMS TRAINING AND QUALIFICATION.  REF 
B IS SECNAVINST S8126.1, NAVY NUCLEAR WEAPONS SECURITY POLICY.  REF C IS 
OPNAVINST 5530.14E, NAVY PHYSICAL SECURITY AND LAW ENFORCEMENT PROGRAM.  REF 
D IS SECNAVINST 5500.37, ARMING AND THE USE OF FORCE.  REF E IS OPNAV N4 
LETTER 5530 SER N46/19U133246, NAVY SECURITY FORCE ANNUAL SUSTAINMENT 
TRAINING REQUIREMENTS.  REF F IS DODD 5210.56, ARMING AND THE USE OF FORCE.// 
POC/OPNAV N462/CWO5 LUIS MARTINEZ/TEL: 703-695-5526 EMAIL:
LUIS.A.MARTINEZ6(AT)NAVY.MIL.//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN provides guidance regarding an exception to policy on 
small arms training, qualification, and sustainment criteria and Navy 
Security Force annual sustainment training requirements as described in 
references (a) through (f).  All commands will take specific actions to 
mitigate the spread of COVID-19 worldwide.  Due to commands implementing 
COVID-19 force health protection measures which include travel restrictions, 
minimizing group gatherings, and maximizing social distancing, the expiration 
time period for the required small arms annual qualification and semi-annual 
sustainment criteria in reference (a) and the Navy Security Forces annual 
sustainment training in references (c) and (e) are extended through 31 August 
2020.  Commanders shall reinitiate small arms live-fire qualification and 
sustainment criteria, and Navy Security Force sustainment training, as 
applicable, as soon as the COVID-19 restrictions are lifted.

2.  Applicability
    a.  Category I and II Personnel.  Per references (a) through (d), this 
exception to small arms policy applies to all active and reserve Navy 
personnel; all Navy law enforcement, armed security watch-standers, and 
security personnel (military, civilian, and contract personnel), designated 
as Category I and Category II personnel.
    b.  Category III and IV Personnel.  Per reference (a), Type Commanders
(TYCOMs) provide specific small arms qualification and sustainment guidance 
for personnel designated as Category III (i.e. Navy Expeditionary Combat 
Command; ground combat elements; etc.) and Category IV (i.e. Visit, board, 
search and seizure personnel; nuclear weapons security for shore facilities; 
etc.).  The exception to policy in this NAVADMIN applies only to the basic 
qualification requirement for Category III and IV personnel.  TYCOMs may 
provide extension to their specific qualification and sustainment guidance 
required for Category III and IV personnel.
    c.  This exception to policy does not apply to Navy Special Warfare nor 
Naval Criminal Investigative Service (NCIS) personnel.

3.  Exception to Policy
    a.  Small Arms Training and Qualification.  Per reference (a), all 
personnel must requalify with live-fire annually.  The expiration time period 
for small arms live-fire requalification/semi-annual sustainment may be 
extended through 31 August 2020.  Commands are directed to continue providing 
firearms safety and weapons familiarization, to include use of simulators for 
sustainment if available, within COVID-19 restrictions and guidance.
    b.  Per reference (f), extensions for live-fire small arms qualifications 
will not exceed a period of 24-months since the last qualification.  
Personnel who do not complete live-fire small arms qualifications within a 
period of 24 -months will not be authorized to be armed.
    c.  Navy Physical Security and Law Enforcement Program.  Per reference 
(c), table 6-1, Navy Security Force personnel are required to complete annual 
sustainment training requirements.  Reference (e) provides annual sustainment 
training requirements for Navy Civilian Guard Force and Auxiliary Security 
Forces.  The expiration time period for all Navy Security Force and armed 
sentry watch-stander annual sustainment training requirements may be extended 
through 31 August 2020, with the exception of training in paragraph 4 of this 
message.

4.  Required Continued Training:  Commanders will ensure all personnel who 
are armed will continue to complete Use of Force training, awareness, and 
acknowledgement per references (c), (d) and (f).

5.  Exception to this NAVADMIN will be submitted to OPNAV N4 via the 
appropriate chain of command.  Updates to this NAVADMIN will be provided as 
applicable and will expire if COVID-19 restrictions are lifted prior to 31 
August 2020.

6.  Released by VADM R. L. Williamson, N4//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//

