CLASSIFICATION: UNCLASSIFIED//

ROUTINE

R 191622Z JUL 23 MID120000309006U

FM CNO WASHINGTON DC

TO NAVADMIN

INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC

BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 160/23

PASS TO OFFICE CODES:
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/JUL//

SUBJ/SELECTED RESERVE ADVANCEMENT TO WARFIGHTING POSITIONS PROGRAM PHASE I//

REF/A/DOC/SECNAV//30JAN23//
REF/B/DOC/USC//1JAN21//
REF/C/MSG/CNO WASHINGTON DC/012005ZFEB23//
REF/D/DOC/BUPERS/07FEB22//

NARR/REF A IS SECNAV MEMO, POLICY REGARDING INVOLUNTARY MOBILIZATION OF 
RESERVE PERSONNEL FOR INDIVIDUAL AUGMENT REQUIREMENTS.  REF B IS TITLE 10 
U.S. CODE.  REF C IS NAVADMIN 018/23, POLICY FOR ACTIVATION AND EMPLOYMENT OF 
RESERVE COMPONENT FORCES.  REF D IS BUPERSINST 1430.16G, ADVANCEMENT MANUAL 
FOR ENLISTED PERSONNEL OF THE U.S. NAVY AND U.S. NAVY RESERVE.//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN announces the implementation of the Advancement to 
Warfighting Positions (A2WP) Program Phase I for enlisted Selected Reserve 
(SELRES) Sailors.  Future A2WP Phases will be announced in subsequent 
NAVADMIN messages.

2.  Background.  Reference (a) directs Total Force sourcing of individual 
augmentation (IA) requirements through Service policies that implement 
careful management of SELRES mobilizations within reference (b) authorities.  
In line with reference (c), Reserve Component (RC) Sailors are authorized and 
highly encouraged to volunteer for mobilization opportunities.  These 
activations will continue to be viewed favorably for career development and 
advancement.  In that spirit, A2WP serves as a tangible incentive to 
encourage volunteers for critical mobilization requirements, coupling 
permanent advancements with select activations.

3.  Policy.  E-4 and E-5 SELRES Sailors who meet all eligibility requirements 
for advancement to the next higher paygrade (e.g., commanding officer's 
recommendation, time-in-rate, professional military knowledge eligibility 
exam, etc.) can apply in ZipServe for select mobilization requirements one 
paygrade higher than their current rank.  These select mobilization 
requirements will be clearly labeled as authorized for the A2WP Program in 
the general remarks section of the advertisement in ZipServe.  If selected 
for the mobilization, Sailors will permanently advance to the next higher 
paygrade upon reporting to the ultimate duty station in line with their 
mobilization orders.  Their time-in-rate date will be established in line 
with reference (d).
     a.  Selected Sailors must obligate through extension or reenlistment to 
complete 36 months of service within 60 days prior to their activation start 
date.  Any Sailor with an end of obligated service date that already matches 
or exceeds the duration of this requirement is not required to incur 
additional service.
     b.  Selected Sailors must sign an Administrative Remarks (NAVPERS 
1070/613) acknowledging that they will be reassigned to a SELRES Inactive 
Duty Training (IDT) billet commensurate with their new paygrade within six 
months after demobilization.  They will have the ability to apply for 
available IDT billets in MyNavy Assignment after demobilization.
     c.  Sailors who are unable to complete the training track en route to 
the mobilization ultimate duty station will no longer be eligible for 
advancement under this program.  Sailors who are re- missioned to another 
mobilization requirement before reporting to their original ultimate duty 
station due to no fault of their own will maintain A2WP eligibility and 
permanently advance to the next higher paygrade upon reporting to their 
ultimate duty station in line with their revised mobilization orders.

4.  A2WP Quotas.  The number of A2WP quotas available depends on the number 
of annual IA requirements tasked by U.S. Fleet Forces Command to the Navy 
Reserve and the community health of corresponding SELRES ratings.  With 
support from the Director, Military Personnel Plans and Policy (OPNAV N13), 
A2WP quotas will be established by the Chief of Navy Reserve at least 
annually.

5.  Selection Criteria.  Commander, Navy Reserve Force Command
(CNRFC) will establish A2WP applicant selection criteria and implement a 
selection process to select the best and fully qualified applicants while 
meeting timely IA sourcing requirements.  More information will be posted on 
the MyNavy Reserve Homeport at
https://private.navyreserve.navy.mil/cnrfc/n-codes/N3/pages/n35_home.aspx.  
Navy Reserve Centers and Navy Reserve Activities maintain responsibility for 
ensuring that assigned SELRES Sailors meet advancement eligibility 
requirements.

6.  Additional Responsibilities.  Navy Training and Administration of the 
Reserves (TAR) Detailing Branch (PERS-46), will ensure that mobilization 
orders for A2WP-selected Sailors include appropriate instructions for the 
ultimate duty stations and supporting Transaction Service Centers or Regional 
Support Centers to process advancements.  CNRFC will track and support 
mobilized Sailors'
advancements associated with the A2WP Program.

7.  Other Incentives.  This program is designed to supplement and not replace 
other incentive programs.  As such, Sailors selected for A2WP will maintain 
eligibility for other monetary and non-monetary incentives to which they 
would be otherwise entitled in line with applicable authorities and 
instructions.  If necessary, OPNAV N13 will adjudicate exceptions to Navy 
policy required to meet the intent of this program.

8.  Points of Contact:
a.  For advancement eligibility questions, Sailors should contact their Navy 
Reserve Center or Navy Reserve Activity educational services officer.
     b.  For specific rate, rating, and Navy enlisted classification 
questions and concerns, Sailors should contact their respective community 
manager.
     c.  For mobilization eligibility questions, contact CNRFC (N35) at 
navresfor_cnrfc_n35@us.navy.mil.
     d.  For A2WP policy questions, contact CDR Brad Smith, Reserve Policy 
Branch (OPNAV N13R), (703)604-5102 or via e-mail at 
david.b.smith24.mil@us.navy.mil.

9.  This NAVADMIN will remain in effect until superseded or canceled.

10.  Released by Vice Admiral Richard J. Cheeseman, Jr., N1.//

BT
#0001
NNNN

CLASSIFICATION: UNCLASSIFIED//

