ROUTINE 
R 021525Z AUG 22 MID200080074325U 
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC 
TO NAVADMIN 
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC 
BT 
UNCLAS 
 
NAVADMIN 174/22 
 
PASS TO OFFICE CODES: 
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1// 
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1// 
 
\MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/AUG// 
 
SUBJ/2022 MERITORIOUS ADVANCEMENT PROGRAM SEASON TWO// 
 
REF/A/MSG/CNO WASHINGTON DC/152116ZFEB22// 
REF/B/MSG/CNO WASHINGTON DC/091538ZDEC21// 
REF/C/MSG/CNO WASHINGTON DC/161157ZJUL20// 
 
NARR/REF A IS NAVADMIN 038/22, 2022 MERITORIOUS ADVANCEMENT PROGRAM SEASON 
ONE.   
REF B IS NAVADMIN 280/21, DETAILING MARKETPLACE ASSIGNMENT POLICY (DMAP).   
REF C IS NAVADMIN 201/20, PROFESSIONAL MILITARY KNOWLEDGE ELIGIBILITY EXAM 
REVISED BUSINESS RULES.// 
 
RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN replaces reference (a) and announces the 
policy and guidance for Calendar Year (CY) 2022 Season Two 
Meritorious Advancement Program (MAP) for Active-Duty (Active 
Component and Training and Administration of the Reserve (TAR)) 
Sailors.  MAP season two will run from 1 September through 15 
October 2022.  This season will feature an additional preseason 
window for commands to verify user hierarchies and unit 
identification code (UIC) assignments ahead of the season.  The 
timeline in paragraph 3 contains additional details. 
 
2.  MAP will account for approximately 20 percent of total 
advancements during CY22, with roughly half of the available MAP 
quotas allocated for each of two MAP seasons during the year.  The 
two-season framework aligns MAP with the Navy wide advancement exam 
(NWAE) to ensure any unused MAP quotas are included in the NWAE 
cycle and to emphasize the intent of MAP to select and reward top 
performing Sailors.  To meet required time in rate (TIR) for MAP 
advancement eligibility, Sailors must have a date of rank no later 
than the following: 
    a.  E-5:  1 January 2021. 
    b.  E-5 (Nuclear-Trained Sailors):  1 January 2020. 
    c.  E-4 and below:  No TIR requirement. 
 
3.  Timeline: 
    a.  MAP Pre-season:  15-24 August 2022. 
    b.  MAP Quotas Uploaded:  30 August 2022. 
    c.  CY22 MAP Season 2:  1 September-15 October 2022. 
 
4.  In order to control over advancing particular rate-paygrade 
combinations and maintain rating health, MAP advancement to AO3 and 
RS3 for Active-Duty Sailors remains controlled as outlined in 
paragraph 7. 
 
5.  In line with reference (b), MAP advancement to ABH2, ABF2, GSM2, 
and CS2 for Active Component Sailors is not authorized due to new 
advancement opportunities available within the detailing marketplace 
assignment policy (DMAP) for those rates.  Visit MyNavy HR DMAP 
website, located at https://www.mynavyhr.navy.mil/Career-
Management/Detailing/Enlisted/Detailing-Marketplace/, for more 
information. 
 
6.  Commands are required to have two Navy Standard Integrated 
Personnel System (NSIPS) MAP user roles (command reviewer and 
command reporting senior) in order to submit MAP advancement(s), 
exception(s) to policy (ETP) and additional MAP quota requests 
through NSIPS.  NSIPS web afloat users and commands without access 
to NSIPS should refer to paragraph 6a for instructions on submitting 
their MAP advancements.  The system will use authoritative data to 
determine eligibility, however, commands are still required to 
locally validate MAP candidates have successfully completed the 
professional military knowledge eligibility examination requirement 
prior to the first day of the MAP season (1 September 2022), as 
outlined in reference (c).  For training on user roles, log into 
NSIPS via https://www.nsips.navy.mil/ and click on training tab, then 
click MAP tutorial. 
    a.  NSIPS web afloat users and commands without access to NSIPS 
must submit a MAP nomination request via e-mail directly to their 
immediate superior in command (ISIC), type commander (TYCOM) or 
budget submitting office (BSO)/echelon II command using the 
meritorious certification letter (MCL).  The letter must be signed 
by the commanding officer and should address any ETP and/or 
additional quotas requested.  Sample MCLs and detailed information 
regarding the offline process can be found via MyNavy Portal (MNP) 
at https://www.mnp.navy.mil/group/advancement-and-promotion/a-  
enlisted-advancement-resources-and-links, then select the *Websites* 
tab in the blue banner and then select the MAP homepage. 
    b.  Quota usage, modifications and distribution will be managed 
within the NSIPS environment.  BSO and command quotas will be 
uploaded into NSIPS on 30 August 2022 and can be found under the 
quota summary report tab.  Quotas can also be found via MNP at 
https://www.mnp.navy.mil/group/advancement-and-promotion/a-enlisted- 
advancement-resources-and-links, then select the *Websites* tab in 
the blue banner and then select the MAP homepage. 
    c.  Additional quotas can be requested using the quota request 
option by the command reviewer user role.  Commands must contact 
their BSO to determine timeline for additional quota requests. 
Whether or not command quotas are authorized, all commands have the 
opportunity to request quotas from their BSO/echelon II command, via 
their ISIC and TYCOM, unless the rating is not authorized for MAP in 
line with paragraph 5 above. 
    d.  NSIPS will automatically determine if an ETP is required 
using predetermined criteria.  Service Members in ratings requiring 
security clearances and rates/pay grades requiring time in rate TIR 
waivers will be automatically routed for adjudication.  The request 
will be routed through the ISIC, TYCOM, and BSO/echelon II command 
using a hierarchical workflow. 
    e.  NSIPS will not automatically generate an ETP for nuclear 
trained service Members.  Commands desiring to advance a nuclear 
trained service Member not meeting the TIR requirement must request 
an ETP to Director, Military Personnel Plans and Policy (OPNAV N13) 
via the Nuclear Program Manager (OPNAV N133). 
 
7.  MAP Advancements in Controlled Rates.  Commands desiring to MAP 
a Sailor to AO3 or RS3 must submit a request to their BSO, via their 
ISIC and TYCOM, using the quota request option in NSIPS.  If the 
command does not have access to NSIPS, they should follow the 
procedures in paragraph 6a.  BSOs will be granted MAP quotas for 
each rate based on the proportion of the billets authorized (BA) at 
the lower paygrade of that rate under that BSO.  If there are not 
enough quotas for all BSOs with BA for the lower paygrade, the 
quotas will be allocated to the BSOs with the largest amount of BA 
for the lower paygrade.  BSOs will be contacted by BUPERS-32 to 
inform them of how many of their assigned quotas may be used for the 
specified rates.  Commands will submit requests to the BSOs using 
the template provided on the MAP homepage via MNP at 
https://www.mnp.navy.mil/group/advancement-and-promotion/a-enlisted- 
advancement-resources-and-links, then select the *Websites* tab in 
the blue banner and then select the MAP homepage. 
 
8.  MAP Website.  MAP quotas by UIC, forms and frequently asked 
questions can be found at 
https://www.mnp.navy.mil/group/advancement-and-promotion/a-enlisted- 
advancement-resources-and-links, then select the *Websites* tab in 
the blue banner and then select the MAP homepage.  The list of 
points of contact for each BSO/echelon II command and list of parent 
and subordinate UICs can also be found on the above website. 
 
9.  Contact MyNavy Career Center (MNCC) at (833) 330-6622 or e-mail 
at askmncc(at)navy.mil. 
 
10.  This NAVADMIN will remain in effect until superseded or 
canceled, whichever comes first. 
 
11.  Released by Rear Admiral J. P. Waters, Acting N1B.// 
 
BT 
#0001 
NNNN 
UNCLASSIFIED//
