CLASSIFICATION: UNCLASSIFIED// 
ROUTINE 
R 161707Z FEB 23 MID600052784205U 
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC 
TO NAVADMIN 
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC 
BT 
UNCLAS 
 
NAVADMIN 042/23 
 
PASS TO OFFICE CODES: 
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1// 
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1// 
MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/FEB// 
 
SUBJ/PHYSICAL FITNESS ASSESSMENT FAILURE RESET// 
 
REF/A/DOC/OPNAV/22APR22// 
REF/B/DOC/COMNAVPERSCOM/01APR22// 
REF/C/DOC/BUPERS/18AUG22// 
REF/D/DOC/BUPERS/07FEB22// 
 
NARR/REF A IS OPNAVINST 6110.1K, PHYSICAL READINESS PROGRAM.   
REF B IS MILPERSMAN-1160-030, ENLISTMENTS AND REENLISTMENTS UNDER CONTINUOUS 
SERVICE CONDITIONS.   
REF C IS BUPERSINST 1610.10F CH-1, NAVY PERFORMANCE EVALUATION SYSTEMS.   
REF D IS BUPERSINST 1430.16G CH-1, ADVANCEMENT MANUAL FOR ENLISTED PERSONNEL 
OF THE U.S. NAVY AND U.S. NAVY RESERVE.// 
 
RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN announces a one-time reset of all physical 
fitness assessment (PFA) failures.  As such, all Active Component 
(AC) and Reserve Component (RC) officers and enlisted Sailors shall 
be counted as having zero past PFA failures prior to the date of 
this NAVADMIN when considering authority to reenlist, advance, 
promote, or execute other career continuation transitions such as 
extensions and duty station transfers.  All other programs and 
processes that take PFA failures into account, such as officer 
commissioning programs, selection or screening boards, special duty 
screenings, etc. will continue to consider any past PFA failures in 
line with normal procedures. 
 
2.  Because the challenges of preparing for and executing the 
limited number of PFAs throughout the Coronavirus disease pandemic 
potentially placed some Sailors at a disadvantage, this reset is 
intended to level the playing field and ensure every Sailor with the 
drive to continue has an opportunity to meet fitness standards and 
serve in our Navy to the maximum extent desired.  This policy does 
not supersede the need for an effective command-level culture of 
fitness.  It remains incumbent upon individual Sailors to invest in 
their personal health and wellness in order to maintain warfighting 
readiness. 
 
3.  This reset empowers commanding officers (CO) to restore 
retention and advancement recommendations, as a modification to 
current policy requirements detailed in references (a) and (b) which 
mandate their removal after subsequent PFA failures.  The decision 
to remain in the Navy beyond the normal end of active obligated 
service (EAOS) or expiration of obligated service (EOS) is 
voluntary. 
 
4.  Implementation guidance: 
    a.  Officer personnel: 
        (1) Career Progression Department (PERS-8) will cease 
processing any officers for administrative separation (ADSEP) based 
solely on successive failures of the PFA. 
        (2) Special cases or circumstances may be raised via the 
exception to policy process to the Officer Plans and Policy Branch 
(OPNAV N131). 
    b.  Enlisted personnel.  This NAVADMIN serves as the authority 
to restore recommendations without the completion of a mock or 
official PFA. 
        (1) To restore retention and advancement eligibility 
withdrawn through an adverse evaluation, the command must issue a 
non-adverse special evaluation as in line with reference (c), unless 
precluded by other policy.  With retention and advancement 
recommendations restored, Sailors may negotiate for orders, or 
extend onboard and obligate service through their full tour of duty. 
They may also reenlist and compete for advancement via the Navy-wide 
advancement exam (NWAE), or advancement selection board, as 
applicable. 
        (2) To restore advancement for a Sailor whose selection for 
advancement has been withheld due only to PFA failure, commands 
should follow the procedures of reference (d) to restore a withheld 
advancement recommendation.  Contact Naval Education and Training 
Professional Development Center (NETPDC) N321 for additional 
guidance on restoring advancement eligibility, using the point of 
contact in paragraph 6. 
        (3) Cancelling an approved separation or fleet reserve 
request that was based on PFA failures: 
            (a) Those with approved fleet reserve or retirement 
(including AC and Ready Reserve) must create and route a fleet 
reserve or retirement cancellation request via Navy Standard 
Integrated Personnel System retirements and separations citing this 
NAVADMIN. 
            (b) Those with approved separation orders from Active 
Duty must submit a special request or authorization (NAVPERS 1336/3) 
to their CO, citing this NAVADMIN requesting to remain on Active 
Duty. 
            (c) In both cases, it is imperative that the command pay 
and personnel administrators submit the requests to cancel 
separations or retirements to the Transaction Service Center (TSC) 
Norfolk, prior to the separation or retirement date.  This will 
ensure the cancellation of the transaction to avoid separating a 
Sailor who wants to stay Navy. 
            (d) Selected Reserve Sailors are encouraged to 
coordinate separation cancellations or modifications closely with 
their Navy reserve activity (NRA) and Navy reserve unit chains of 
command.  NRAs are encouraged to contact Reserve Officer 
Administration (PERS-911) or Enlisted Reserves (PERS-913) via their 
reserve readiness and mobilization command for cancellation of 
separations that are within 30 days. 
        (4) Continuing an approved separation or fleet reserve 
request that was based on PFA failures: 
           (a) Sailors who are approved for separation or fleet 
reserve due to PFA policy for a date on or before 30 April 2023 may 
continue their current plans without change. 
           (b) Sailors who are approved for separation or fleet 
reserve on or after 1 May 2023 may continue their current plans 
without change, however, separations will be deemed voluntary. 
 
5.  The Nuclear Propulsion Program (NNPP) Manager, (OPNAV N133), 
will remain the single point of contact for NNPP personnel PFA 
matters including instructor screenings and ADSEPs. 
 
6.  Point of contact is the MyNavy Career Center at 
askmncc(at)navy.mil or 1-833-330-MNCC (6622).  For advancement 
eligibility questions contact NETPDC N321: (850) 473-6148/DSN 751, 
usn.pensacola.netpdc.mbx.netpdc-n321-discrepancies(at)us.navy.mil. 
 
7.  Released by Vice Admiral Richard J. Cheeseman Jr., N1.// 
 
BT 
#0001 
NNNN 
CLASSIFICATION: UNCLASSIFIED//
