UNCLASSIFIED//

ROUTINE

R 111719Z AUG 20 MID510001602815U

FM CNO WASHINGTON DC

TO NAVADMIN

INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC

BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 227/20

PASS TO OFFICE CODES:
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/AUG//

SUBJ/CONVENING OF THE FY-21 FULL TIME SUPPORT CAPTAIN SELECTIVE RETENTION 
BOARD//

REF/A/DOC/SECNAV/24DEC19//

NARR/REF A IS SECNAVINST 1920.6D, ADMINISTRATIVE SEPARATION OF OFFICERS.

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN announces the convening of the FY-21 Full Time Support 
(FTS) Captain Selective Retention (SELRET) Board.

2.  The SELRET Board is required to retain FTS Captains beyond 3 years time 
in grade bringing FTS inventory in line with authorized end strength, 
allowing for stable promotion opportunity.

3.  The FTS Captain SELRET Board will convene on 30 September 2020 to 
consider FTS Captains in all competitive categories for retention.  FTS 
Captains who were promoted during FY-19 will be looked at for their first 
gate and FTS Captains who were promoted during FY-16 will be looked at for 
their second gate.  Per reference (a), second gate FTS Captains not selected 
for retention will retire or be released from active duty no later than 1 
September 2021 and first gate FTS Captains not selected for retention will 
retire or be released from active duty no later than 1 September 2022.  In 
either case, FTS officers will be retained on active duty, if necessary, to 
enable the officer to become eligible for a regular active duty retirement.

4.  Amplifying information can be accessed via MyNavy Portal at 
https://www.mnp.navy.mil/group/career-planning and then selecting Officer 
Community Managers, Reserve OCM, Full Time Support, and finally FTS Selective 
Retention.  The authorized number of selections for retention will be posted 
as part of the board convening order after the board adjourns.  An example 
letter to selection boards is also available on the same website.

5.  Point of contact is CDR Mark MacNamara, BUPERS 351C, at (901) 874-
4346/DSN 882 or via e-mail at mark.macnamara(at)navy.mil.

6.  This message will remain in effect until superseded or canceled, 
whichever comes first.

7.  Released by Vice Admiral John B. Nowell, Jr, N1.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//

