CLASSIFICATION: UNCLASSIFIED//

ROUTINE

R 201931Z DEC 22 MID200080607226U

FM CHINFO WASHINGTON DC

TO NAVADMIN

BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 287/22

SUBJ/2023 NAVY COMMUNITY OUTREACH PLAN//

REF/A/DOC/OSD/30SEP2022/-/NOTAL//
REF/B/DOC/OPNAV/16DEC19//
REF/C/NAVADMIN/24JUN16//

NARR/ REF (A) IS ATSD MEMO ISSUING DOD 2023 PUBLIC AFFAIRS COMMUNITY 
ENGAGEMENT PLAN.
REF (B) IS OPNAVINST 5726.8C, OUTREACH:  AMERICAS NAVY, AND ESTABLISHES NAVY 
COMMUNITY OUTREACH REQUIREMENTS.
REF (C) IS NAVADMIN 148-16 ANNOUNCING THE AMERICAN CONNECTIONS PROGRAM.// 
POC/ROB NEWELL/CIV/CHINFO/LOC:  WASHINGTON, DC/TEL:  (703) 614-1879
/EMAIL:  ROBERT.D.NEWELL1.CIV(AT)US.NAVY.MIL//

1.  In support of references (a) thru (c), this NAVADMIN issues 
implementation guidance and tasks support for the Navy's Community Outreach 
Program for Calendar Year (CY) 2023.

2.  While Navy Community Outreach efforts continue to contribute to a growing 
understanding of the Navy's importance to our country's national security, 
the challenging recruiting environment confronting all the military services 
demands we also leverage community outreach programs to help recruit and man 
the Navy our fellow citizens require.

3.  Data
    a.  Today, 26 percent of Americans consider the Navy as the most 
important service to our country's national security, trailing only the Air 
Force's 27 percent.  This is a 14 percent increase since 2009 and a 1 percent 
increase from 2021.
    b.  While the Navy continues to be viewed very favorably by the public, 
each of the services have experienced at least a 10 percent decrease in 
favorability during the past six years.  In 2016, 82 percent of the country 
viewed the Navy favorably.  Today, that number is 70 percent.
    c.  In 2011, 57 percent of Americans said they would recommend joining 
the Navy.  Today, 43 percent say they would.
    d.  Three quarters of U.S. adults under 25 say they are not interested at
all in joining any branch of the military.
    e. The percentage of Americans between the ages of 16 and 21 who say they
will either definitely or probably join the military has fallen to 9
percent.  The lowest point since 2007.

4.  Goals
    a.  Continue to increase the number of Americans who understand the 
Navy's importance to national security.
    b.  Increase the number of adults who recommend joining the Navy.
    c.  Increase the number of Americans under 25 who are considering joining
    the Navy.

5.  Objectives
    a.  Ensure 50 percent of all in-person community outreach engagements 
focus on 13-29 year-olds and 50 percent of all engagements within this age 
group focus on 13-29 year-old women.
    b.  Increase the number of women under 30 who view the Navy favorably 
from 46 percent to 49 percent.
    c.  Increase the number of African Americans who view the Navy as most
important to national security from 17 percent to 24 percent.
    d.  Increase the number of Hispanic Americans who view the Navy as the 
most important to national security from 24 percent to 28 percent.
    e.  Increase the number of Americans over 25 who recommend joining the 
Navy from 43 percent to 48 percent.
    f.  Increase the number of Americans under 25 who are considering joining
the Navy from 12 percent to 15 percent.

6.  Reference (a) has authorized the following community outreach programs 
for CY 2023:
    a.  Seven Fleet Weeks.  Tasking and responsibilities for these events 
will be provided SEPCOR by cognizant operational and regional commanders.  As
always, Fleet Week support is subject to operational availability.
        (1) (East Coast) Port Everglades, FL; New York City.
        (2) (West Coast) Los Angeles, CA; San Francisco, CA; Seattle, WA;
Portland, OR; San Diego, CA.
    b.  15 Navy Weeks.
        (1) Miami, FL, 23-29 JAN
        (2) Tucson, AZ, 20-26 FEB
        (3) Shreveport, LA, 20-26 MAR
        (4) Tri-Cities, TN, 3-9 APR
        (5) Wilmington, NC, 10-16 APR
        (6) St. Louis, MO, 8-14 MAY
        (7) Oklahoma City, OK, 26 JUN-2 JUL
        (8) Milwaukee, WI, 17-23 JUL
        (9) Billings, MT, 7-13 AUG
        (10) Lincoln, NE, 21-27 AUG
        (11) Cleveland, OH, 4-10 SEP
        (12) Salt Lake City, UT, 11-17 SEP
        (13) Salem, OR, 25 SEP-1 OCT
        (14) Philadelphia, PA, 9-15 OCT
        (15) Indianapolis, IN, 23-29 OCT
    c.  Per reference (b), the Navy Week program is a community outreach
requirement, led by the Navy Office of Community Outreach (NAVCO), and is
specifically designed to provide Americans around the country with the
opportunity to personally connect with their Navy.  As such, principal
stakeholders identified in reference (b), as well as subordinate commands
specified in subsequent tasking, will support the 2023 Navy Week campaign to 
the maximum extent operational schedules allow.
    d.  The American Connections program, announced in reference (c), will
continue to be a prominent component of the Navy 2023 community outreach
strategy.  Managed by NAVCO, it was established to share the Navy story with
media across the country serving markets that generally do not receive Navy
news and information.  In 2023, the program will include the following
elements:
        (1) Media production visits.  NAVCO deploys production teams to 
commands to produce feature stories and accompanying photos of assigned 
Sailors, which are provided to media outlets where those Sailors have local
connections.  NAVCO is planning 12-15 Media Production Visits in 2023 in
support of key Navy communication priorities and programs, such as Ohio
submarine replacement, surface shipbuilding and allied partners.  In 
accordance with reference (b), commands are required to support media 
production visits from NAVCO.  Expected areas to be visited include:
            (a) Groton, CT
            (b) Jacksonville, FL
            (c) FDNF Japan
            (d) Kings Bay, GA
            (e) Lemoore, CA
            (f) Mayport, FL
            (g) Norfolk, VA
            (h) Pearl Harbor, HI
            (i) Rota, Spain
            (j) San Diego, CA
        (2) Sailor recognition.  Commands are encouraged to continue
highlighting their Sailors' awards, promotions, retirements, changes of 
command and other recognition by emailing content to 
navyoutreach(at)navy.mil.  NAVCO shares with media where Sailors have local 
connections and provides links to commands so Sailors can share with family 
and friends.
        (3) Fleet-produced content sharing service.  Every day, commands
throughout the Navy produce hundreds of stories and photos featuring the
professionalism of our Sailors and the accomplishments of Navy commands.  
NAVCO provides these stories and photos to media where Sailors have local 
connections and to media with ties to namesake units.  In accordance with 
reference (b), commanding officers are encouraged to, "ensure all internally 
produced media products for public release include local connections for any 
Sailors identified in stories and photos."
        (4) Shoutout service.  A toll-free telephone service (1-855-OUR-NAVY 
or 1-855-687-6289) is available for Sailors to record a short greeting, which 
is shared with media where Sailors have local connections.  Greetings can be
submitted in conjunction with a holiday or observance, such as Mother's Day,
Veterans Day, etc.  Greetings can also be sent from Sailors, or namesake 
units, to offer support to their home teams participating in major sporting
events.  Throughout the year, Sailors can share shoutouts to commemorate
milestones such as birthdays, anniversaries, graduations, etc.  Those wishing
to be notified of shoutout opportunities can e-mail navyoutreach(at)navy.mil.
    e.  Naval Aviation Outreach.  Naval Aviation outreach is particularly
effective, in that it has the unique ability to bring a primary warfighting
platform to inland markets.  The following Naval Aviation outreach activities
are authorized in 2023:
        (1) 33 full Blue Angels performances.
        (2) 70 Navy Parachute Team (Leap Frogs) performances.
        (3) Seven Navy Hosted Air Shows/Open Houses:  NAF El Centro, CA; NAS
        Point Mugu, CA; NAS Key West, FL; USNA, Annapolis, MD; NAS Oceana, 
VA; NAS Jacksonville, FL; NAS Pensacola, FL.  These events are authorized to 
have aerial demonstrations by aviation assets organic to the installation.
        (4) 42 TACAIRDEMO performances/Legacy Flights at Chief of Information
(CHINFO)-authorized air shows at which the Blue Angels are not performing.
        (5) Aircraft static displays at CHINFO-authorized air shows and other
events.
        (6) 50 flyovers (two aircraft maximum unless authorized by CHINFO),
equally divided between East and West Coast aviation assets, at CHINFO
-authorized events.  Sporting events are permitted one regular season and one
post-season flyover at home games or matches, unless otherwise approved by
CHINFO.  Requests are submitted to NAVCO using DD Form 2535, reviewed by the
Aviation Outreach Working Group (AOWG) consisting of representatives from 
CNAL, CNAP, NAVCO and CHINFO, before being forwarded to CHINFO for final 
approval.
        (7) Flyovers, with local area aircraft, for community events that are
vital to preserving good relations between the following Naval Aviation
installations and host communities that support them:  NAS North Island, CA;
NAS Lemoore, CA; NAS Fallon, CA; NAWS China Lake, CA; NAS Whidbey Island, WA;
NAS Oceana, VA.  This includes flyovers at High School events that are 
approved by the Secretary of the Navy in accordance with the additional 
policy guidance and procedures outlined in the Policy section of this Plan.
        (8) Aviation outreach support that falls into the following 
categories is not subject to limits specified in reference (a):
            (a) Military services retain operational authority over support 
for funeral and memorial service flyovers, which are not considered community
outreach events.
            (b) Flyovers for ceremonies and other events intended primarily 
for an internal audience are not considered outreach events and may be 
conducted with TYCOM approval.  This includes U.S. Naval Academy events.
        (9) U.S. Air Force Academy vs. U.S. Naval Academy football game.  
Aerial review consisting of a flyover formation of two U.S. Air Force F-35s 
and two Department of the Navy F-35s.  Participating Department of Navy 
aircraft may be sourced from U.S. Navy or U.S. Marine Corps Aircraft.  
Participation will be approved through operational channels in accordance 
with Military Service policies.
        (10)  Super Bowl.  Per reference (a), the Navy is authorized to 
support the 2023 Super Bowl with a pre-game flyover of four fleet aircraft; 
recruiting, education and public affairs assets.
    f.  18 Continental United States Port Visits.  From a community outreach
perspective, there is no more effective means to showcase the Navy's
capabilities and its talented Sailors than allowing Americans to visit a ship
or submarine:
        (1) (East Coast) Mobile, AL; New Orleans, LA; Boston, MA; Charleston,
SC; Norfolk, VA; Eastport, ME; Bristol, RI; Philadelphia, PA; Rockland, ME; 
New London, CT; Manhattan, NY; Cleveland, OH; Newport, RI.
        (2) (West Coast) Santa Barbara, CA; Port Angeles, WA; Kodiak, AK; 
Homer, AK; Seward, AK.
        (3) Other port visits conducted primarily for training or operational
purposes are not subject to limits specified in reference (a).  Per reference
(b), the following elements should be incorporated into every outreach port
visit SOE:
            (a) Media day (pierside press availability and a shipboard tour).
            (b) Very important person (VIP) reception.
            (c) VIP tours for local civic and community leaders and 
educators.
            (d) The maximum amount of public visitation possible to the 
extent that time and force protection restrictions permit.
            (e) Two or more community relations projects, such as beach clean
-ups, Habitat for Humanity, school visits, etc., with appropriate media
coverage.
    g.  Civic and Executive Outreach.  Reference (b) approves dedicated
community outreach travel for non-governmental organization, civic and
executive outreach.
        (1) 25 Executive Engagement Visits.  Suggested cities for 2023 
include, but are not limited to:  Atlanta, GA; Augusta, ME; Breckenridge, CO; 
Cheyenne, WY; Chicago, IL; Columbus, OH; Dallas/Ft. Worth, TX; Dayton, OH; 
Fairbanks, AK; Grand Forks, ND; Grand Junction, CO; Helena, MT; Kansas City, 
MO; Little Rock, AR; Louisville, KY; Nashville, TN; Pierre, SD; Pittsburgh, 
PA; Richmond, VA; Santa Fe, NM; Savannah, GA; Trenton, NJ; Twin Falls, ID; 
Winter Park, FL.  As an extension of the EEV program, NAVCO will also conduct 
outreach engagement visits for post-deployment commanding officers.  NAVCO 
welcomes Flag Officers, SES civilians and post-deployment commanding officers 
who are interested in conducting outreach to areas of the United States not 
mentioned above where they have close personal ties.
        (2) Per reference (b), travel by Flag Officers, SES civilians and
members of the command triad outside the local area to participate in 
community outreach and other representational events that demonstrably help 
achieve the Navy's mission are authorized and will be considered essential 
official business in the government's interest.
    h.  Ship and submarine namesake crew visits.  One of the most effective
means to connect Americans with their Navy is through strong and enduring
namesake unit relationships.  In addition to the requirements specified for 
the Navy Week program referenced above, reference (a) approves visits by
crewmembers of the following ships and submarines with namesake ties to their
namesake city or state:  USS ASHEVILLE, USS CHICAGO, USS TOPEKA, USS 
ANCHORAGE, USS CARL M LEVIN, USS CHARLESTON, USS CINCINNATI, USS COMSTOCK, 
USS COWPENS, USS ESSEX, USS FORT WORTH, USS FRANK E PETERSEN JR, USS JACK H. 
LUCAS, USS JACKSON, USS JOHN H CANLEY, USS JOHN P MURTHA, USS JOHN S MCCAIN, 
USS KANSAS CITY, USS KIDD, USS LENAH SUTCLIFFE HIGBEE, USS MANCHESTER, USS 
MICHAEL MURPHY, USS MOBILE, USS MOBILE BAY, USS MONTGOMERY, USS NEW ORLEANS, 
USS OAKLAND, USS OKLAHOMA, USS OMAHA, USS PEARL HARBOR, USS PORTLAND, USS 
PRINCETON, USS SANTA BARBARA, USS SAVANNAH, USS SOMERSET, USS TULSA.
    i.  Navy Band tours and ceremonial unit performances.  U.S. Navy Band and
fleet Band Activities will oversee and collect all new community outreach
measurement guidelines as detailed in reference (a).  Reference (a) approves
the following:
        (1) Fall/spring/summer tours
        (2) Fleet/regional band performances
        (3) U.S. Navy Band international performances
            (a) International Military Band Concert, Vancouver, Canada, May
            2023.
            (b) Consul General Calgary Independence Day Celebration, Alberta,
            Canada, July 2023.
            (c) Royal Nova Scotia Tattoo 2023, Halifax, Canada, July 2023.
        (4) Puerto Rico tour, January 2023
        (5) International and Midwest Band and Orchestra clinics
        (6) Navy Band public outreach concerts
        (7) Concerts outside the NCR
        (8) Large public concerts (DC Concerts on the Ave / Holiday concert)
        (9) Ceremonial Guard:
            (a) Two parades outside of NCR (Rose Bowl Parade, NYC St. 
Patrick's Day Parade)
            (b) Seven Navy Weeks and three Fleet Weeks
            (c) Two Media engagement events outside of NCR
    j.  Social Media and Emerging Trends Outreach.  Social Media remains an
important component of the Navy 2023 community outreach strategy.  NAVCO
manages multiple social platforms to aid in connecting Americans to their
Navy.  NAVCO uses social media to amplify fleet messaging, highlight Navy
Weeks, namesake visits, executive engagements visits, and to release content
that educates and informs Americans about their Navy.  Commands are 
encouraged to continue highlighting their Sailors and tag NAVCO's social 
media handles or invite NAVCO to collaborate on posts to help amplify.  
Additionally, commands are encouraged to reach out to NAVCO with 
content/influencer collaboration ideas.
    k.  Navy Birthday Celebrations/Historical Commemorations/Ship Milestone
Events.  Support is authorized for the following:
        (1) Battle of Midway 81st Anniversary (June 4)
        (2) 248th Navy Birthday (October 13)
        (3) Ship Milestones (dates TBD):
            (a) USS SANTA BARBARA (LCS 32) commissioning
            (b) USS LENAH SUTCLIFFE HIGBEE (DDG 123) commissioning
            (c) USS TRIPOLI (LHA 7) commissioning commemoration
            (d) USS MARINETTE (LCS 25) commissioning
            (e) USS HYMAN G. RICKOVER (SSN 795) commissioning
            (f) USS NANTUCKET (LCS 27) commissioning
            (g) USS AUGUSTA (LCS 34) commissioning
            (h) USS COOPERSTOWN (LCS-23) commissioning
    l.  Community Outreach in Local Areas.  For activities not included in
reference (a), use of local resources to support outreach activities in the
local area is authorized and encouraged.  Local area is defined in Joint 
Travel Regulation, Chapter 2, Article 0206.
    m.  Entertainment Media.  Support is authorized for entertainment media
    engaged in:
        (1) Feature Films:  Nerves of Steel; Mission Impossible 8; Blue 
Angels IMAX Experience.
        (2) Television Series:  NCIS; NCIS Los Angeles; NCIS Hawaii
        (3) Major Docu-Series:  (NETFLIX) Making of an F-35 Pilot; (History
Channel) Making of a Submariner; (History Channel) In Command
    n.  Aircraft Carrier, ship and submarine underway embarks for 
distinguished visitors and media are authorized.  Request the Type Commands 
managing these programs provide embark opportunities to those who can best 
share their experience with young and diverse audiences.  To help achieve 
that desired effect, CNAF now uses this nomination form:  
https://forms.office.com/r/Ti8mh6quZ1.  Nominations populate into a database 
and are reviewed weekly for consideration for upcoming embark opportunities.
    o.  Navy Community Ambassador (NCA) Program.  The NCA Program is designed 
to develop a network of civilian community leaders who understand the 
strategic communication challenges facing the Navy, and who can present 
engagement opportunities made possible by their experience, connections, and
audiences.  The intent is to build access and communication channels with a
more diverse demographic and subsequently increase their understanding of 
their Navy, its mission, and contribution to national security.  The program
currently has 19 ambassadors representing Virginia, Maryland, Pennsylvania, 
New York, Florida, Colorado, Washington, California, Illinois, Texas and the
District of Columbia.  The first program year brought opportunities such as
guest speaker invitations; Navy Week engagement recommendations and
connections; distribution of STEM program information; and recruitment
referrals.  In 2023, NCAP looks to grow to 50 ambassadors and engage Navy
stakeholders in, at minimum, two ambassador-provided opportunities per
month.  PAOs interested in nominating a NCA can submit nominees on the CHINFO
Portal:  https://portal.secnav.navy.mil/orgs/CHINFO/services/SitePages/Navy
_Ambassador_Program.aspx.

7.  All modifications beyond the scope of reference (a) require approval by 
the Office of the Assistant to the Secretary of Defense for Public Affairs.  
Requests for an exception to policy must be forwarded through CHINFO.  For 
additional questions pertaining to this NAVADMIN and the execution of the 
Navy's 2023 Community Outreach Plan, please contact Mr. Rob Newell at
(703) 614-1879.

8.  Released by RDML R. M. Perry, Chief of Information.//

BT
#0001
NNNN

CLASSIFICATION: UNCLASSIFIED//

