UNCLASSIFIED//

ROUTINE

R 031846Z SEP 20 MID200000073036U

FM CNO WASHINGTON DC

TO NAVADMIN
NAVADMIN

INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC

BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 245/20

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC//

SUBJ/ NAVY BIRTHDAY COMMEMORATION EXECUTION ORDER//

REF/A/OPNAV/16DEC2019//
REF/B/MSG/CNO WASHINGTON DC/261518ZJUN20//
REF/C/MSG/CNO WASHINGTON DC/031730ZSEP20//

AMPN/REF A is OPNAVINST 5726.8B. 
REF B is NAVADMIN 180/20.  
REF C is NAVADMIN 244/20.//

RMKS/1.  This message is a Chief of Naval Operations (CNO) Execution Order
(EXORD) for events in support of the Navy’s 245th Birthday celebration
(NAVYBDAY) on 13 October.  EXORD is to be carried out in accordance with 
references (a) through (c).

2.  Situation.  Although current events related to the mitigation of the 
effects of COVID-19 have sharply curtailed our ability to conduct large-scale 
public events, it is still an important part of our mission to remain a 
learning organization and, whenever possible, to commemorate the U.S. Navy’s 
rich history and proud heritage, the NAVYBDAY is a perfect event to celebrate 
and honor Navy service.  Our past is full of diverse examples of toughness, 
initiative, accountability, and integrity on the part of our Sailors and Navy 
civilians who inspire and inform our modern force, especially as we again 
face great power competition.

3.  Mission.  Execute Navy Birthday events in a manner that brings honor and 
respect upon our service while respecting the complications of the COVID-19 
pandemic.

4.  Execution.
    a.  Phase I (planning and program development of the 245th NAVYBDAY) 
planning actions and the collection of a full listing of planned events are 
ongoing.
    b.  This EXORD directs the shift to Phase II, which encompasses the final 
preparations for the 245th NAVYBDAY celebration execution (5-14 October).
References (b) and (c) provide guidance for executing events in support of 
the 245th NAVYBDAY celebration.

5.  Tasking.
    a.  All commands:
        (1) Ensure Commanding Officers and Officers in Charge plan for and 
commemorate the 245th NAVYBDAY to the best of their ability.
        (2) Execute the 245th NAVYBDAY Communication Plan (history.navy.mil
/birthday) and participate in planned virtual outreach as operationally 
feasible.
        (3) Report all commemorative events to Naval History and Heritage 
Command (NHHC) Communication and Outreach Division NLT 16 October 2020.
        (4) Provide Navy Birthday lessons learned to the NHHC POC, Ms. Alura 
Romero, NLT 21 October 2020.

6.  Administrative.
    a.  NAVYBDAY toolkit can be found at history.navy.mil/browse-by-topic 
/commemorations-toolkits/navy-birthday
    b.  The online toolkit features a wide variety of historical and 
communication resources to aid in the development of local commemorative 
activities, including graphics, communication planning guidance, articles, 
downloadable photos and art, logos, Plan of the Day notes, videos, blog 
posts, ceremony scripts, ceremony program templates, speeches from previous 
celebrations, and guidance including previous NAVADMINs establishing the 
celebrations.
    c.  Development of resources is ongoing.  As completed, they will be 
added to the NAVYBDAY toolkit check back frequently.

7.  Point of contact.  NHHC POC, Ms. Alura Romero, Comm (202) 685-6361 
alura.romero(AT)navy.mil.

8.  Released by Mr. Andrew S. Haeuptle, Director, Navy Staff.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//

