UNCLASSIFIED//

ROUTINE

R 092002Z SEP 20 MID510001710858U

FM CNO WASHINGTON DC

TO NAVADMIN

INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC
NAVY INSIDER THREAT HUB ELEMENT WASHINGTON DC

BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 250/20

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N2N6/SEP//

SUBJ/NAVY INSIDER THREAT AWARENESS MONTH//

REF/A/DOC/NDAA/23DEC16//

NARR/REF A IS NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2017, 
SECTION 922, ORGANIZATION OF THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE FOR MANAGEMENT OF 
SPECIAL OPERATIONS FORCES AND SPECIAL OPERATIONS.//

RMKS/1.  Purpose:  To announce the Department of the Navy observance of 
Insider Threat Awareness Month in September 2020.

2.  Protecting military, civilian and contractor personnel and their families 
from insider threats is a Navy priority.  The Navy Insider Threat Program 
will use this month to promote insider threat awareness, develop trust, 
establish communication pathways, build relationships, and teach ways for 
reporting insider threat concerns.

3.  Insider Threat Definition.  As defined in reference (a), a threat 
presented by a person who:
    a.  Has or once had, authorized access to information, a facility, 
network, person, or resource of the Department; and
    b.  Wittingly, or unwittingly, commits:
        (1) An act in contravention of law or policy that resulted in, or 
might result in, harm through the loss or degradation of government or 
company information, resources, or capabilities; or
        (2) A destructive act, which many include physical harm to another in 
the workplace.

4.  The Navy Insider Threat Program is an effective capability that allows 
the Navy to prevent, detect, deter, and mitigate insider threat risks from 
potential malicious or unwitting insiders.  The program focuses on measures 
aimed at preventing unauthorized disclosure of classified information as well 
as deterring future workplace violence.

5.  During September Insider Threat Awareness Month, the Insider Threat 
Program encourages Navy personnel to renew attentiveness in recognizing when 
coworkers demonstrate concerning behaviors.  Early identification of 
personnel in need of assistance is key.  The goal is to provide early 
intervention and assistance for individuals that may be in need or are 
experiencing great stress and hardship within their work or personal lives.  
Recognize the signs and report insider threat concerns to the Department of 
the Navy Analytic Hub at 703-695 -7700, insiderthreat.fct(at)navy.mil, or 
https://www.secnav.navy.mil/itp.

6.  Counter-Insider Threat educational and training resources (i.e. posters) 
can be found at the following URL:  https://www.cdse.edu/resources/posters-
insider
-threat.html and can be posted in common areas.  The Navy Insider Threat 
Program has been sending out awareness materials for the past several months.  
Please be on the lookout as we continue to bring awareness of the insider 
threat to the Navy workforce.

7.  The Navy will continue to support the national effort to counter insider 
threats.  Keeping the workforce safe requires your vigilance and timely 
reporting of any suspicious activity or potentially threatening behaviors you 
may observe.  This partnership is essential to our nation and its ability to 
counter the threat from within.

8.  Released by Vice Admiral Jeffrey E. Trussler, Deputy Chief of Naval 
Operations for Information Warfare, OPNAV N2N6.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//

