CLASSIFICATION: UNCLASSIFIED

ROUTINE

R 241719Z MAY 22 MID200001745112U

FM CNO WASHINGTON DC

TO NAVADMIN

BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 119/22

PASS TO OFFICE CODES:
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//DNS//

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/DNS/MAR//

SUBJ/USS CONSTITUTION CHIEF PETTY OFFICER HERITAGE TRAINING 2022// 

POC/OPNAV COORDINATOR/ELIZABETH STAFFORD/SCPO/COORD/703-695-4948/ 
Elizabeth.m.stafford2.mil@us.navy.mil

RMKS/1. This NAVADMIN announces the 2022 USS CONSTITUTION CPO Heritage Weeks 
Training. USS CONSTITUTION, located in Boston, Massachusetts, will host 
Fiscal Year 2023 CPO Selectees on 19-23 September (Week 1) and 26-30 
September (Week 2) 2022.

2. CPO Selectees will work aboard "Old Ironsides" where they will be immersed 
in more than 220 years of naval heritage while learning about the art of 
sailing, construction of the ship, and handling of 19th century guns.  The 
training will culminate in bringing USS CONSTITUTION alive and getting 
underway.

3. USS CONSTITUTION will host 120 CPO Selectees and 27 mentors each week.
Mentors shall be seasoned Chief and Senior Chief Petty Officers.  All 
nominations will be provided via each respective Fleet or Force Master Chief.
Coordinators for the Fleet or Force Master Chiefs will provide all 
nominations to the OPNAV Coordinator listed in this message, with the 
following subject line "MENTOR NOMINATION (WEEK #)" or "SELECTEE NOMINATION 
(WEEK #)."  Mentor nominations are due by close of business 15 June 2022.  
Reserve and Active CPO Selectee nominations are due one week following the 
release of the respective selection board results.  All quotas and staffing 
are coordinated through the OPNAV coordinator and coordinators for the 
respective Fleet or Force Master Chiefs; individual Command Master Chiefs and 
CPOs shall not contact USS CONSTITUTION or OPNAV Coordinator for nominations 
or available billets.

4. Attendee costs for this OPNAV-authorized, mission essential training event 
are to be authorized from attendee unit training funds.  Unit Commanding 
Officers shall determine whether CPO/CPO Selectees assigned to their unit 
should attend, taking into account the availability of unit training funds.

5. Logistical information such as travel recommendations and uniform 
requirements will be emailed to all participants once their attendance has 
been confirmed.

6. Released by Mr. Andrew S. Haeuptle, Director, Navy Staff.//

BT
#0001
NNNN

UNCLASSIFIED

