UNCLASSIFIED//

ROUTINE

R 202317Z APR 20 MID110000597928U

FM CNO WASHINGTON DC

TO NAVADMIN

INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC

BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 114/20

PASS TO OFFICE CODES:
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/APR//

SUBJ/POLICY GUIDANCE UPDATE FOR IDENTIFICATION CARD SERVICES FOR COVID-19//

REF/A/MEMO/USD/7APR20//

REF/B/DOC/OUSD P&R/14DEC17//

REF/C/NAVADMIN/CNO/022207ZAPR20//
RED/D/MEMO/OUSD P&R/16APR20//

REF/E/MEMO/OUSD I&S/16APR20//

NARR/REF A IS THE UNDER SECRETARY OF DEFENSE POLICY GUIDANCE FOR 
IDENTIFICATION CARD OPERATIONS FOR COVID-19.
REF B IS OUSD (P&R) POLICY FOR THE ELIGIBILITY AND ISSUANCE OF A COMMON 
ACCESS CARD (CAC) TO DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE (DOD) PERSONNEL.  REF C IS 
NAVADMIN 097/20 COMMON ACCESS CARD ISSUANCE POLICY FOR COVID-19.  REF D IS 
OUSD (P&R) POLICY FOR EXTENDING PUBLIC KEY INFRASTRUCTURE CERTIFICATIONS.  
REF E IS OUSD (I&S) POLICY FOR PHYSICAL ACCESS TO DOD FACILITIES WITH AN 
EXPIRED CAC/USID CARD.//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN provides an update to temporary guidance for Navy 
personnel who require Common Access Card (CAC) and Uniformed Services 
Identification (USID) Card services during the COVID-19 emergency in 
accordance with references (a) through (e).  This NAVADMIN supplements 
reference (c) but does not cancel it.

2.  To maximize force health protection and ensure continuity of operations, 
all Navy Real-time Automated Personnel Identification System (RAPIDS) sites 
will continue to provide initial issuance or re-issuance of a CAC that will 
be expiring within 30 days with an appointment scheduled online.  CACs will 
not be reissued due to printed information changes (e.g. promotion, name 
change, or for any appearance changes due to relaxed grooming standards).  
Department of Defense (DoD) civilian employees will retain their CACs when 
transferring from one Service to another.  CAC PIN resets will continue to be 
provided as a walk-in service.

3.  Installation, Facility and Building Access.  Service Members are 
authorized physical access to DoD installations effective 16 April 2020 with 
an expired CAC or USID card through 30 September 2020 (or later if the 
applicable policy is extended).  The expiration date of the CAC must be 16 
April 2020 or later and for the USID card (issued to dependents, retirees, 
etc.) must be 1 January 2020 or later.  The credential must be successfully 
verified using an electronic physical access control system (ePACS) that 
assures continued DoD affiliation against an authoritative DoD source.  An 
expired CAC or USID that fails to verify shall not be accepted, but will not 
be confiscated unless believed to be counterfeit.  Effective 16 April 2020, 
DoD components may accept expired CACs for access to facilities and buildings 
on and off DoD installations.  The printed expiration date must be 16 April 
2020 or later and the continued DoD affiliation of the cardholder must be 
verified.  Expired credentials of any other type shall not be accepted for 
facility or building access.

4.  Extension of Credential Certificates.  Service Members may use ID Card 
Office Online (IDCO) https://www.dmdc.osd.mil/self_service (note:  there is 
an underscore between self and service) to rekey CAC certificates through 30 
September 2020 or the affiliation end date, if amended to be sooner or later.
    a.  Eligibility.
        (1) The CAC must be unexpired when attempting to update the 
certificate online.
        (2) The CAC must be within 30 days of expiration (for example, a CAC 
that expires on 30 May 2020 can be updated starting on 1 May 2020).
        (3) The cardholder must have an active affiliation with DoD beyond 
the CAC end date.
            (a) Service Members can log into IDCO at 
https://www.dmdc.osd.mil/self_service to verify their affiliation extends 
beyond their CAC end date.
            (b) Affiliation for populations sponsored via Trusted Agent 
Security Sponsor (TASS) (i.e. contractors) must be updated in TASS prior to 
action being taken to rekey the certificates.
    b.  Minimum computer requirements are:  ActivClient 7.1 or higher, Java 8 
update 144 or higher and Internet Explorer version 7 or higher.
    c.  Process for extending certificates online:
        (1) Step by step instructions for rekeying certificates are posted at 
https://www.cac.mil/Coronavirus in the News & Updates Section.  The update is 
titled User Guide  Updating CAC/VoLAC Certificates.  Three links are 
provided.
        (2) If IDCO provides an error message when trying to rekey your 
certificates, you should contact one of the following offices:
            (a) NMCI:  https://infosec.navy.mil/PKI/, (866)
843-6624
            (b) Other:  https://infosec.navy.mil/PKI/, email 
INFOSEC_ITAC(at)navy.mil, (800) 304-4636
        (3) If you continue to experience issues updating your certificate 
online, make an appointment with the nearest RAPIDS office to get a new CAC.
    d.  Actions that Service Members must take after extending certificates 
online:
        (1) To be able to use Government Furnished Equipment (GFE) at home, 
Service Members must bring the GFE to a government facility to connect and 
log onto the network, which will cache the new credentials.
        (2) To send/read encrypted emails, Service Members must upload their 
certificate to the Global Address List (GAL) using Microsoft Outlook on GFE 
(this procedure will not work with Outlook Web Access (OWA)).  Step-by-step 
directions will be posted to 
https://portal.secnav.navy.mil/orgs/OPNAV/N2N6/DDCION/SiteP
ages/COVID-19.aspx.
    e.  Known limitations:
        (1) Be aware that if you are at home when you update your CAC 
certificate using this process, your government computer will not recognize 
your new certificate and you will no longer be able to log in to your 
computer.  This process is best accomplished when your GFE is physically 
connected to the NMCI network so new CAC certificate information can be 
cached to your machine.
        (2) Users cannot use OWA to upload CAC certificates to the GAL.
        (3) CAC PINs cannot be reset remotely or via trusted proxy.  When a 
Service Member needs to have their PIN reset on their CAC, the card is 
inserted into the CAC reader at a RAPIDS workstation and the Service Member 
must provide their fingerprint and PIN to complete the process.

5.  The following additional policy changes are authorized until 30 September 
2020 (or later if the applicable policy is extended):
    a.  The minimum age of USID card initial issuance is increased from 10 
years  to 14 years.
    b.  If the affiliation of a cardholder with their Service has not changed 
(i.e. they are still entitled to benefits), USID cards which expired on or 
after 1 January
2020 are authorized for continued benefit use (e.g.
commissary, exchange) through 30 September 2020 (or later if the applicable 
policy is extended).
    c.  Continued use of the Reserve USID card to obtain active-duty benefits 
is authorized for mobilized Reserve Component members and their eligible 
dependents.
    d.  Remote Defense Enrollment Eligibility Reporting System (DEERS) 
enrollment for newly acquired dependents (i.e. spouse, child, stepchild, 
adopted child) is authorized to provide healthcare coverage.  Documentation 
may be scanned and e-mailed to approved Navy RAPIDS sites for completion of 
the remote enrollment process.  Examples of required documentation are 
marriage certificate, divorce decree, birth certificate, adoption decree, 
acknowledgement of paternity and social security card.  Remote enrollment 
processing will be centralized at:  Joint Base Pearl Harbor-Hickam, HI, 
NAVSUBASE New London, CT, NAS Whidbey Island Seaplane Base, WA, NAF El 
Centro, CA, NSA Annapolis, MD, NAS Fallon, NV, NAS Oceana, VA, NSA Mid-South, 
TN and NAVSUBASE Kings Bay, GA.  Contact My Navy Career Center at
1-833-330-6622 or via e-mail at askmncc(at)navy.mil for specific 
documentation requirements and POC information for the above remote 
enrollment processing sites.
    e.  USID card reissuance via USPS is authorized for Service Members who 
are unable to secure an appointment at a RAPIDS site.  Service Members using 
this capability must contact the nearest ID card issuing facility prior to 
submitting documentation to ensure all required documents are provided for 
their specific circumstances.  Location and contact information for the 
nearest ID card issuance facility can be obtained through 
https://www.dmdc.osd.mil/.
USID cards issued during remote enrollment will not exceed one year to allow 
time for the Service Members to provide original or state certified copies of 
enrollment documents to the ID card issuing facility.

6.  If you or a family member have a dependent or retiree ID card please be 
aware that your benefits (e.g. medical,
dental) will remain in effect as long as your military sponsor is entitled to 
benefits.  For example, the family of a married E-6 with an end of active 
obligated service date of January 2022 is authorized DOD benefits until that 
date, regardless of the status of their ID card(s).

7.  ID card sites are open and have appointment availability.  To check the 
operating status of a RAPIDS site and schedule an appointment, go to the 
RAPIDS Appointment Scheduler at https://rapids- appointments.dmdc.osd.mil.  
Additional site-specific information will be provided for each location as 
well as the status of alternate locations.  Additional information can be 
located at www.cac.mil/coronavirus.

8.  Primary points of contact are:
    a.  General ID card services inquires:  MyNavy Career Center, 1-833-330-
6622 or via e-mail at askmncc(at)navy.mil.
    b.  Installation access issues:  Mr. Zachary Parks, CNIC N34, (202) 433-
4792, e-mail at zachary.v.parks(at)navy.mil
    c.  CAC certificate issues:
        (1) CAPT Susan BryerJoyner, OPNAV (N2N6G5), 571-
256-8422 or via e-mail at susan.bryerjoyner1(at)navy.mil
        (2) Mr. Mike Johnson, OPNAV (N2N6G5), e-mail at 
william.m.johnson1(at)navy.mil
    d.  DEERS/RAPIDS issues:
        (1) Tracy Wilder, Navy Personnel Command, Pay and Personnel Support 
Branch (PERS-2), 901-874-3425 or via e- mail at tracy.wilder(at)navy.mil.
        (2) Lawanda Bing, Navy Personnel Command (PERS-2),
901-874-3467 or via e-mail at lawanda.bing(at)navy.mil

9.  This NAVADMIN will remain in effect until superseded or canceled, 
whichever occurs first.

10.  Released by Vice Admiral John B. Nowell, Jr, N1.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//

