UNCLASSIFIED//

ROUTINE

R 291822Z MAY 20 MID110000745087U

FM CNO WASHINGTON DC

TO NAVADMIN

INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC

BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 158/20

PASS TO OFFICE CODES:
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//DNS//
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//DNS//

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC//

SUBJ/ BATTLE OF MIDWAY COMMEMORATION EXECUTION ORDER//

REF/A/DOC/CNO/OPNAVINST 5726.8B//

REF/B/MSG/CNO/DTG 251522ZAPR19//

AMPN/REF A IS THE OPNAVINST 5726.8B OUTREACH:  AMERICA'S NAVY/ 
REF B IS NAVADMIN 026/20 BATTLE OF MIDWAY PLANNING ORDER//

RMKS/1.  This message is a Chief of Naval Operations (CNO) Execution Order
(EXORD) for events in support of the U.S. Navy’s 78th anniversary 
commemoration of the Battle of Midway (BOM), beginning on 3 June and ending 
on 7 June.  EXORD to be carried out in accordance with references (a) and 
(b).

2.  SITUATION
    a.  Although current events related to the mitigation of the effects of
COVID-19 have sharply curtailed our ability to conduct large-scale public 
events, it is still an important part of our mission to remain a learning 
organization and, whenever possible, to commemorate the U.S. Navy’s rich 
history and proud heritage.  Our past is replete with examples of toughness, 
initiative, accountability, and integrity on the part of American Sailors and 
Navy civilians who inspire and inform our modern force, especially in times 
like these.

3.  MISSION.  As much as possible and within the bounds of personnel safety, 
operational availability, and existing local, state, and federal restrictions 
on gatherings and travel, commands are directed to find creative ways to 
commemorate the 78th anniversary of the Battle of Midway.

4.  EXECUTION
    a.  Phase I (Planning and program development of 78th anniversary of BOM) 
Planning actions and the collection of a full listing of planned events are 
ongoing.
    b.  This EXORD directs the shift to Phase II, which encompasses the final 
preparations for the 78th BOM commemoration execution (3 June to 7 June).
Reference (b) provides guidance in executing events in support of the 78th 
anniversary commemoration of BOM.
    c.  Tasking:
        (1) All commands:
            (a) Ensure Commanding Officers and Officers in Charge plan for 
and commemorate the 78th anniversary of the BOM to the best of their ability.
            (b) Execute the BOM 78th Anniversary Communication Plan
(history.navy.mil/midway) and participate in planned virtual outreach as 
operationally feasible.
            (c) Report all commemorative events to Naval History and Heritage 
Command (NHHC) Communication and Outreach Division NLT 15 June 2020.
            (d) Provide BOM lessons learned to NHHC NLT 22 June 2020.
    d.  Administrative:
        (1) BOM toolkit can be found at history.navy.mil/browse-by-topic 
/commemorations-toolkits/wwii-75/battle-of-midway
        (2) The online toolkit features a wide variety of historical and 
communication resources to aid in the development of local commemorative 
activities, including documents, articles, downloadable photos and art, 
logos, graphics, Plan of the Day notes, videos, blog posts, ceremony scripts, 
ceremony program templates, speeches from previous commemorations, and 
guidance including previous NAVADMINs establishing the commemoration.
        (3) Development of some of those resources is ongoing.  They will be 
added as they are received, check back frequently.

5.  Point of contact.  NHHC POC, Ms. Alura Romero, Comm (202)685-6361 
alura.romero(AT)navy.mil.

6.  Released by Mr. Andrew Haeuptle, Director, Navy Staff.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//

