CLASSIFICATION: UNCLASSIFIED//

ROUTINE

R 251231Z SEP 23 MID120000476139U

FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//DNS//

TO NAVADMIN

INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//DNS//

BT
UNCLAS
NAVADMIN 228/23
PASS TO OFFICE CODES:
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//DNS//
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC //DNS//

MSGID/NAVADMIN/CNIC WASHINGTON DC/N00P//

SUBJ/CNIC CELEBRATES 20TH ANNIVERSARY (CORRECTED COPY)//

RMKS/1. On 1 October  2023, Commander, Navy Installations Command (CNIC) 
celebrates 20 years of Sustaining the Fleet, Enabling the Fighter, and 
Supporting the Family.

2.  CNIC may be young in comparison to other Navy commands, but we are 
equally committed and vital to the Navy's forward presence around the globe.  
Navy installations are older than CNIC with a long and proud history of 
supporting the Navy's mission.

3.  On this anniversary milestone, CNIC is now recognized as a global Type 
Commander (TYCOM) with administrative control of all Navy installations and 
enduring locations by coordinating and overseeing Manpower, Training, and 
Equipping (MT&E) functions and standardized operations.

4.  The Navy's 69 installations are more operationally relevant and vital to 
the defense of the Nation than ever before.  The Navy's capability of winning 
wars, deterring aggression, and maintaining freedom of the seas would not be 
possible without the Shore enterprise.  Our installations are platforms that 
deliver a ready, competitive, and lethal force to combatant commanders with 
the confidence and resolve to win any future contest.

5.  Supporting our Navy families is an important part of mission readiness.  
The Shore enterprise supports Sailors' Quality of Service by providing key 
programs that contribute to their Quality of Life.  Through programs such as 
Navy Housing, Fleet Readiness, and Family Readiness, Navy installations 
provide resilience for Navy families whether their Sailors are at home or 
deployed.

6.  The over 44,000 military and civilian workforce are the backbone of CNIC.  
The skilled and talented personnel who make up Team CNIC are dedicated to 
serving the Navy and Nation.

7.  To commemorate CNIC's 20th Anniversary, the headquarters will be hosting 
an event on 5 October 2023 starting at 1000 EST.  This event can be viewed 
via facebook@navyinstallations and all are invited to attend.

8.  Point of contact.  CNIC POC is Coleen R. San Nicolas -Perez, 
coleen.r.sannicolasperez.civ(at)us.navy.mil.

9.  RADM John Menoni sends.

10. Released by Mr. Andrew S. Haeuptle, Director, Navy Staff.//

BT
#0001
NNNN

CLASSIFICATION: UNCLASSIFIED//

