CLASSIFICATION: UNCLASSIFIED//

ROUTINE

R 191554Z JUL 23 MID120000308923U

FM CNO WASHINGTON DC

TO NAVADMIN

INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC

BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 159/23

PASS TO OFFICE CODES:
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/JUL//

SUBJ/FY-25 LAW EDUCATION PROGRAM SELECTION BOARD APPLICATIONS//

REF/A/DOC/SECNAV/22JAN19//

AMPN/REF A IS SECNAVINST 1520.7G, LAW EDUCATION PROGRAM.//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN announces the convening of the Fiscal Year
(FY) 2025 Law Education Program (LEP) Selection Board in February 2024.  
Applications for this board must be received no later than 30 September 2023.  
Reference (a) provides information about LEP program eligibility and 
application procedures.

2.  Officers selected for the program must begin legal training no later than 
September 2024 and prior to the 6th anniversary of their Active-Duty 
commencement date.  This Active-Duty time includes any enlisted service.  
Legal training in the program commences as of the date of reporting for duty 
under instruction at the unit to which the officer is assigned while 
attending law school.  The officer is not required to begin law school 
courses by this date.  All Service requirements are statutory and cannot be 
waived.

3.  Eligible officers who intend to apply for FY-25 LEP program must submit 
the materials required in reference (a), Navy Law Education Program 
Application (SECNAV Form 1520/1), and a written request with current contact 
information and official college transcripts from each school attended no 
later than 30 September 2023, via their commanding officer to:
    Navy Personnel Command
    Attn:  PERS-4416
    5720 Integrity Drive
    Millington TN 38055-0000

4.  An applicant's official Law School Admission Test (LSAT) score report 
must be received prior to the convening of the selection board in February 
2024, but may be submitted via separate correspondence.  Website screenshots 
of LSAT scores will not be accepted.  All supplemental submissions must be 
received prior to the board convening in order to be considered by the 
selection board.

5.  Applicants are required to schedule an interview with a senior
(O-5 or O-6) Active-Duty Judge Advocate's General Corps officer.  To schedule 
an interview, send an e-mail to the Region Legal Service Office closest to 
your current duty station.  To find a local point of contact please follow 
the links provided at 
https://www.jag.navy.mil/careers_/careers/docs/Guidance_JAG_Structur
ed_Interview_LEP.pdf.  Please identify yourself as a LEP applicant in the 
message requesting an interview.

6.  Applicants must provide a prioritized list of American Bar Association 
(ABA)-accredited law schools in the United States to which they applied.  
Applicants must apply to at least one law school at which in-state tuition 
can be obtained and one school near the current duty station of the officer.  
Applicants must also apply to one school located in a Fleet concentration 
area such as Norfolk, VA, Jacksonville, FL, Mayport, FL, San Diego, CA, Pearl 
Harbor, HI, or Washington, DC.  Applicants may only attend ABA-accredited law 
schools with a current Education Service Agreement (ESA) from the Naval Post 
Graduate School (NPS).  A list of schools that NPS maintains an ESA with is 
available at 
https://www.jag.navy.mil/careers_/careers/opportunities_lep.html.
Applicants are also encouraged to consider the rigor and recognized 
reputation of the law schools to which they apply, the cost and tuition, and 
opportunities for summer Navy legal training in nearby locations.  Reference 
(a), enclosure (2) contains a list of criteria considered for program law 
school selection.

7.  In addition to year group limitations, applicants must also meet 
eligibility requirements in line with reference (a).  Applicants must verify 
those requirements with their respective officer community managers.  Nuclear 
power and aviation-trained officers must meet specific eligibility 
requirements set forth in paragraphs

6.f. and 6.g. of reference (a).  Nuclear power and aviation-trained officers 
must submit documentation of having met the eligibility requirements set 
forth in paragraphs 6.f. and 6.g. of reference (a) as part of their 
applications to the LEP selection board.

8.  Point of contact for application procedures or program questions is Ms. 
Melissa Waldron, at (901) 874-4087 or via e-mail at 
Melissa.waldron2.civ@us.navy.mil.  The Navy JAG Corps Accessions Detailer is 
also available for questions at (901) 874-2714 or DSN 882-2714.

9.  Released by Vice Admiral Richard J. Cheeseman, Jr., N1.//

BT
#0001
NNNN

CLASSIFICATION: UNCLASSIFIED//

