UNCLASSIFIED//

PRIORITY

P 281530Z JUL 21 MID200001005409U

FM CNO WASHINGTON DC

TO NAVADMIN

INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC

BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 159/21

PASS TO OFFICE CODES:
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/JUL//

SUBJ/SPECIAL LEAVE ACCRUAL FOR THE NAVY//

REF/A/DOC/USC/20DEC19//
REF/B/DOC/DOD/16JUN09//
REF/C/DOC/USD(PR)/16APR20//
REF/D/DOC/ASN(MRA)/28JUL21//
REF/E/DOC/COMNAVPERSCOM/22JAN10//
REF/F/DOC/COMNAVPERSCOM/25SEP18//

NARR/REF A IS TITLE 10 U.S. CODE SECTION 701, THE ENTITLEMENT AND 
ACCUMULATION OF LEAVE FOR MEMBERS OF THE ARMED SERVICES.  REF B IS THE 
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE INSTRUCTION 1327.06, LEAVE AND LIBERTY POLICY AND 
PROCEDURES.  REF C IS UNDER SECRETARY OF DEFENSE MEMORANDUM AUTHORIZING 
SPECIAL LEAVE ACCRUAL FOR FISCAL YEAR 2020 DUE TO COVID-19 RESTRICTIVE 
TRAVEL.  REF D IS ASSISTANT SECRETARY OF THE NAVY FOR MANPOWER AND RESERVE 
AFFAIRS MEMORANDUM AUTHORIZING SPECIAL LEAVE ACCRUAL FOR FISCAL YEAR 2021.  
REF E IS MILPERSMAN 1050-070, SPECIAL LEAVE ACCRUAL.  REF F IS MILPERSMAN 
7220-340, LUMP-SUM PAYMENT FOR ACCRUED LEAVE.//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN announces special leave accrual (SLA) for Navy Service 
Members for fiscal year (FY) 2021.

2.  In line with references (a) and (b), leave carryover into the next FY is 
normally limited to 60 days.  However, in line with these references, SLA can 
be approved to allow up to 120 days of leave to be carried over into the 
following FY.  SLA for FY-20 was approved by the Office of the Secretary of 
Defense (OSD), reference (c), due to the COVID-19 pandemic.  SLA for FY-21 
was approved by the Assistant Secretary of the Navy for Manpower and Reserve 
Affairs (ASN(MRA)), reference (d), due to continued COVID-19 pandemic 
restrictions.

3.  In line with the SLA approval for FY-21, Sailors that perform active 
service consistent with reference (a) during FY-21 are authorized to 
accumulate annual leave in excess of 60 days (not to exceed 120 days) as 
shown on the end of month September 2021 Leave and Earnings Statement.  This 
SLA leave balance may be retained until the end of FY-24 (30 September 2024).  
Enlisted members that will have more than 120 days of leave may sell back 
leave per references (e) and (f).  This is limited to once in a career and 
counts towards the 60 day career limit.  In line with reference (b), officers 
are not authorized to sell back leave.

4.  Service Members are reminded that this SLA approval only protects the 
leave balance as of 30 September 2021 and does not protect leave earned in 
future FYs unless SLA is approved for that FY.  Sailors are responsible for 
tracking and managing their own leave.

5.  Unit commanders will continue to ensure maximum use of earned leave and 
minimize the loss of leave within the constraints of operational 
requirements.  All leave, to include non-chargeable leave such as 
convalescent leave and caregiver leave, must be recorded via e-leave in Navy 
Standard Integrated Personnel System.

6.  This NAVADMIN will remain in effect until superseded or canceled, 
whichever occurs first.

7.  Released by Vice Admiral John B. Nowell, Jr, N1.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//

