ROUTINE 
R 192016Z JUL 22 MID200080025781U 
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC 
TO NAVADMIN 
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC 
BT 
UNCLAS 
 
NAVADMIN 155/22 
 
PASS TO OFFICE CODES: 
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1// 
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1// 
MSGID/NAVADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/JUL// 
 
SUBJ/FISCAL YEAR 2023 ENLISTED TO MEDICAL DEGREE PREPARATORY PROGRAM 
ANNOUNCEMENT// 
 
REF/A/DOC/BUMED/7MAY15// 
REF/B/MSG/CNO WASHINGTON DC/171350ZJUL17// 
 
NARR/REF A IS BUMEDINST 1500.31, UNIFORMED SERVICES UNIVERSITY OF 
THE HEALTH SCIENCES ENLISTED TO MEDICAL DEGREE PREPARATORY PROGRAM. 
REF B IS NAVADMIN 177/17, NUCLEAR TRAINED SAILOR APPLICATIONS TO 
OFFICER COMMISSIONING PROGRAMS AND MODIFICATION TO FY-19 NUCLEAR 
LIMITED DUTY OFFICER IN-SERVICE PROCUREMENT BOARD PROCESS.// 
 
RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN solicits applications and provides guidance 
for the Fiscal Year (FY) 2023 Enlisted to Medical Degree Preparatory 
Program (EMDP2). 
 
2.  The EMDP2 is a two-year undergraduate education program open to 
Sailors of all ratings who meet eligibility requirements in line 
with reference (a) and the EMDP2 website at 
https://medschool.usuhs.edu/academics/emdp2.  The EMDP2 is a 
partnership between the Uniformed Services University of the Health 
Sciences (USUHS) and the military services to provide an opportunity 
for highly motivated, academically promising enlisted Service 
Members.  The EMDP2 consists of intensive coursework, preparation, 
and mentoring to prepare students for application to medical school. 
Upon successful completion of the program, students will be 
competitive for acceptance to medical schools in the United States. 
 
3.  Selectees are assigned to USUHS in Bethesda, MD, for two years. 
Individuals selected for the EMDP2 program will remain on active 
duty while completing coursework and will receive pay, allowances, 
benefits and privileges of their current paygrade.  Selectees will 
receive permanent change of station orders to USUHS for the entire 
length of the course.  USUHS will pay all school expenses (books, 
tuition, labs, etc.) for the entire length of the course. 
 
4.  Deadline for submission of applications for FY-23 enrollment is 
2359 Eastern Time on 30 September 2022.  Application packages must 
be received on or before the deadline.  No additional documents or 
packages will be accepted after this date.  Application requirements 
are specified on the EMDP2 website in paragraph 2. 
 
5.  Strict adherence to package submission requirements will be a 
primary factor for selection.  Applicants must review their package 
in its entirety before submission.  A minimum score of *Good* on the 
latest physical fitness assessment and qualifying Scholastic 
Assessment Test/American College Test scores are required. 
 
6.  Applicants assigned to a nuclear training command or who hold a 
nuclear Navy enlisted classification (N13O, N13S, N14O, N14S, N15O, 
N15S, N16O, N16S, N23O, N23S, N24O, N24S, N25O, N25S, N26O, N26S, 
N59X, N89X) must obtain a conditional release from their nuclear 
field duty before submitting an EMDP2 application for consideration 
for the FY-23 board, in line with reference (b).  To obtain a 
conditional release, applicants must submit an enlisted personnel 
action request (NAVPERS 1306/7) to the Nuclear Propulsion Program 
Manager (OPNAV N133) via the detailer at Enlisted Nuclear 
Power/Submarine assignments (PERS-403).  The FY-23 board will only 
consider nuclear enlisted candidates who have a conditional release 
included in their EMDP2 application. 
 
7.  Completed electronic applications and supporting documents 
should be submitted via Department of Defense Safe at 
https://safe.apps.mil/ to the following e-mail address EMDP2- 
application(at)usuhs.edu.  If documents are encrypted, e-mail the 
passphrase to EMDP2-application(at)usuhs.edu.  Use the following 
naming convention for e-mails and document file names:  LAST NAME 
(all caps), matriculation year, and last four digits of social 
security number, plus any other identifier you choose.  Applicants 
can verify receipt of documents by phone at (301) 319-0590 or e-mail 
EMDP2-application(at)usuhs.edu. 
 
8.  General questions on the EMDP2 should be sent to 
EMDP2(at)usuhs.edu.  Point of contact for Navy service-specific 
inquiries is HMCS Jessica L. Aragon, Office of the Hospital Corps, 
Bureau of Medicine and Surgery, at (703) 681-8941 or e-mail at 
Jessica.L.Aragon2.mil(at)mail.mil. 
 
9.  Released by Rear Admiral J. P. Waters, Acting N1B.// 
 
BT 
#0001 
NNNN 
UNCLASSIFIED//
